if youth, throughout all history, had had a champion to
stand up for it; to show a doubting world that a child can think; and,
possibly, do it practically; you wouldn't constantly run across folks today
who claim that "a child don't know anything."a child's brain starts
functioning at birth; and has, amongst its many infant convolutions, thousands
of dormant atoms, into which god has put a mystic possibility for noticing an
adult's act, and figuring out its purport.

up to about its primary school days a child thinks, naturally, only of play.
but many a form of play contains disciplinary factors. "you can't do this," or
"that puts you out," shows a child that it must think, practically or fail.
now, if, throughout childhood, a brain has no opposition, it is plain that it
will attain a position of "status quo," as with our ordinary animals. man
knows not why a cow, dog or lion was not born with a brain on a par with ours;
why such animals cannot add, subtract, or obtain from books and schooling,
that paramount position which man holds today.

but a human brain is not in that class. constantly throbbing and pulsating, it
rapidly forms opinions; attaining an ability of its own; a fact which is
startlingly shown by an occasional child "prodigy" in music or school work.
and as, with our dumb animals, a child's inability convincingly to impart its
thoughts to us, should not class it as ignorant.

upon this basis i am going to show you how a bunch of bright young folks did
find a champion; a man with boys and girls of his own; a man of so dominating
and happy individuality that youth is drawn to him as is a fly to a sugar
bowl. it is a story about a small town. it is not a gossipy yarn; nor is it a
dry, monotonous account, full of such customary "fill-ins" as "romantic
moonlight casting murky shadows down a long, winding country road." nor will
it say anything about tinklings lulling distant folds; robins carolling at
twilight, nor any "warm glow of lamplight" from a cabin window. no. it is an
account of up-and-doing activity; a vivid portrayal of youth as it is today;
and a practical discarding of that worn-out notion that "a child don't know
anything."

now, any author, from history's dawn, always had that most important aid to
writing: an ability to call upon any word in his dictionary in building up his
story. that is, our strict laws as to word construction did not block his
path. but in my story that mighty obstruction will constantly stand in my
path; for many an important, common word i cannot adopt, owing to its
orthography.

i shall act as a sort of historian for this small town; associating with its
inhabitants, and striving to acquaint you with its youths, in such a way that
you can look, knowingly, upon any child, rich or poor; forward or "backward;"
your own, or john smith's, in your community. you will find many young minds
aspiring to know how, and **why** such a thing is so. and, if a child shows
curiosity in that way, how ridiculous it is for you to snap out:-- "oh! don't
ask about things too old for you!"

such a jolt to a young child's mind, craving instruction, is apt so to dull
its avidity, as to hold it back in its school work. try to look upon a child
as a small, soft young body and a rapidly growing, constantly inquiring brain.
it must grow to maturity slowly. forcing a child through school by constant
night study during hours in which it should run and play, can bring on
insomnia; handicapping both brain and body.

now this small town in our story had grown in just that way:-- slowly; in
fact, much too slowly to stand on a par with many a thousand of its kind in
this big, vigorous nation of ours. it was simply stagnating; just as a small
mountain brook, coming to a hollow, might stop, and sink from sight, through
not having a will to find a way through that obstruction; or around it. you
will run across such a dormant town, occasionally; possibly so dormant that
only outright isolation by a fast-moving world, will show it its folly. if you
will tour asia, yucatan, or parts of africa and italy, you will find many sad
ruins of past kingdoms. go to indo-china and visit its gigantic ankhor vat;
call at damascus, baghdad and samarkand. what sorrowful lack of ambition many
such a community shows in thus discarding such high-class construction! and i
say, again, that so will youth grow dormant, and hold this big, throbbing
world back, if no champion backs it up; thus providing it with an opportunity
to show its ability for looking forward, and improving unsatisfactory
conditions.

so this small town of branton hills was lazily snoozing amidst up-and-doing
towns, as youth's champion, john gadsby, took hold of it; and shook its
dawdling, flabby body until its inhabitants thought a tornado had struck it.
call it tornado, volcano, military onslaught, or what you will, this town
found that it had a bunch of kids who had wills that would admit of no
snoozing; for that is youth, on its forward march of inquiry, thought and
action.

if you stop to think of it, you will find that it is customary for our "grown-
up" brain to cast off many of its functions of its youth; and to think only of
what it calls "topics of maturity." amongst such discards is many a form of
happy play; many a muscular activity such as walking, running, climbing; thus
totally missing that alluring "joy of living" of childhood. if you wish a
vacation from financial affairs, just go out and play with youth. play "blind-
man's buff,'' "hop-scotch," "ring toss," and football. go out to a charming
woodland spot on a picnic with a bright, happy, vivacious group. sit down at a
corn roast; a marshmallow toast; join in singing popular songs; drink a quart
of good, rich milk; burrow into that big lunch box; and all such things as
banks, stocks, and family bills, will vanish on fairy wings, into oblivion.

but this is not a claim that man should stay always youthful. supposing that
that famous spaniard, landing upon florida's coral strands, had found that
mythical fountain of youth; what a calamity for mankind! a world without
maturity of thought; without man's full-grown muscular ability to construct
mighty buildings, railroads and ships; a world without authors, doctors,
savants, musicians; nothing but youth! i can think of but a solitary approval
of such a condition; for such a horror as war would not, --could not occur;
for a child is, naturally, a small bunch of sympathy. i know that boys will
"scrap ;" also that "spats" will occur amongst girls; but, at such a
monstrosity as killings by bombing towns, sinking ships, or mass annihilation
of marching troops, childhood would stand aghast. not a tiny bird would fall;
nor would any form of gun nor facility for manufacturing it, insult that
almost holy purity of youthful thought. anybody who knows that wracking sorrow
brought upon a child by a dying puppy or cat, knows that childhood can show us
that our fighting, our policy of "a tooth for a tooth," is abominably wrong.

so, now to start our story.

branton hills was a small town in a rich agricultural district; and having
many a possibility for growth. but, through a sort of smug satisfaction with
conditions of long ago, had no thought of improving such important adjuncts as
roads; putting up public buildings, nor laying out parks; in fact a dormant,
slowly dying community. so satisfactory was its status that it had no form of
transportation to surrounding towns but by railroad, or "old dobbin." now, any
town thus isolating its inhabitants, will invariably find this big, busy world
passing it by; glancing at it, curiously, as at an odd animal at a circus;
and, you will find, caring not a whit about its condition. naturally, a town
should grow. you can look upon it as a child; which, through natural
conditions, should attain manhood; and add to its surrounding thriving
districts its products of farm, shop, or factory. it should show a spirit of
association with surrounding towns; crawl out of its lair, and find how
backward it is.

now, in all such towns, you will find, occasionally, an individual born with
that sort of brain which, knowing that his town is backward, longs to start
things toward improving it; not only its living conditions, but adding an
institution or two, such as any city, big or small, maintains, gratis, for its
inhabitants. but so forward looking a man finds that trying to instill any
such notions into a town's ruling body is about as satisfactory as butting
against a brick wall. such "boards" as you find ruling many a small town,
function from such a soporific rut that any hint of digging cash from its cast
iron strong box with its big brass padlock, will fall upon minds as rigid as
rock.

branton hills had such a man, to whom such rigidity was as annoying as a thorn
in his foot. continuous trials brought only continual thornpricks; until,
finally, a brilliant plan took form as john gadsby found branton hills' high
school pupils waking up to branton hills' sloth. gadsby continually found this
bright young bunch asking: "aw! why is this town so slow? it's nothing but a
dry twig!!"

"ha !" said gadsby; "a dry twig! that's it! many a living, blossoming branch
all around us, and this solitary dry twig, with a tag hanging from it, on
which you will find: Â‘branton hills; a twig too lazy to grow!'"

now this put a "hunch" in gadsby's brain, causing him to say: "a high school
pupil is not a child, now. naturally a high school boy has not a man's
qualifications; nor has a high school girl womanly maturity. but such kids,
born in this swiftly moving day, think out many a notion which will work, but
which would pass our dads and granddads in cold disdain. just as ships pass at
night. but supposing that such ships should show a light in passing; or blow a
horn; or, if--if--if-- by golly! i'll do it !"

and so gadsby sat on his blossom-bound porch on a mild spring morning,
thinking and smoking. smoking can calm a man down; and his thoughts had so
long and so constantly clung to this plan of his that a cool outlook as to its
promulgation was not only important, but paramount. so, as his cigar was
whirling and puffing rings aloft; and as groups of bright, happy boys and
girls trod past, to school, his plan rapidly took form as follows: "youth!
what is it? simply a start. a start of what? why, of that most astounding of
all human functions; thought. but man didn't start his brain working. no. all
that an adult can claim is a continuation, or an amplification of thoughts,
dormant in his youth. although a child's brain can absorb instruction with an
ability far surpassing that of a grown man; and, although such a young brain
is bound by rigid limits, it contains a capacity for constantly craving
additional facts. so, in our backward branton hills, i just know that i can
find boys and girls who can show our old moss-back town hall big-wigs a thing
or two. why! on town hall night, just go and sit in that room and find out
just how stupid and stubborn a council, (put into town hall, you know, through
popular ballot!), can act. say that a road is badly worn. shall it stay so? up
jumps old bill simpkins claiming that it is a townsman's duty to fix up his
wagon springs if that road is too rough for him!"

as gadsby sat thinking thus, his plan was rapidly growing: and, in a month,
was actually starting to work. how? you'll know shortly; but first, you should
know this john gadsby; a man of "around fifty;" a family man, and known
throughout branton hills for his high standard of honor and altruism on any
kind of an occasion for public good. a loyal churchman, gadsby was a man who,
though admitting that an occasional fault in our daily acts is bound to occur,
had taught his two boys and a pair of girls that, though folks do slip from
what scriptural authors call that "straight and narrow path," it will not pay
to risk your own soul by slipping, just so that you can laugh at your ability
in staying out of prison; for gadsby, having grown up in branton hills, could
point to many such man or woman. so, with such firm convictions in his mind,
this upstanding man was constantly striving so to act that no complaint from
man, woman or child should bring a word of disapproval. in his mind, what a
man might do was that man's affair only and could stain no soul but his own.
and his altruism taught that it is not difficult to find many ways in which to
bring joy to such as cannot, through physical disability, go out to look for
it; and that only a small bit of joy, brought to a shut-in invalid will carry
with it such a warmth as can flow only from acts of human sympathy.

for many days gadsby had thought of ways in which folks with a goodly bank
account could aid in building up this rapidly backsliding town of contribution
could do? in this town, full of capitalists and philanthropists contributing,
off and on, for shipping warming pans to zulus, gadsby saw a solution. in
whom? why, in just that bunch of bright, happy school kids, back from many a
visit to a city, and noting its ability in improving its living conditions. so
gadsby thought of thus carrying an inkling to such capitalists as to how this
stagnating town could claim a big spot upon our national map, which is now
shown only in small, insignificant print.

as a start, branton hills' "daily post" would carry a long story, outlining a
list of factors for improving conditions. this it did; but it will always stay
as a blot upon high minds and proud blood that not a man or woman amongst such
capitalists saw, in his plan, any call for dormant funds. but did that stop
gadsby? can you stop a rising wind? hardly so gadsby took into council about
forty boys of his vicinity and built up an organization of youth. also about
as many girls who had known what it is, compulsorily to pass up many a picnic,
or various forms of sport, through a lack of public park land. so this strong,
vigorous combination of both youth and untiring activity, avidly took up
gadsby's plan; for nothing so stirs up a youthful mind as an opportunity for
accomplishing anything that adults cannot do. and did gadsby know youth? i'll
say so! his two sons and girls, now in high or grammar school, had taught him
a thing or two; principal amongst which was that all-dominating fact that, at
a not too far distant day, our young folks will occupy important vocational
and also political positions, and will look back upon this, our day; smiling
kindly at our way of doing things. so, to say that many a branton hills "king
of capital" got a bit huffy as a high school stripling was proving how
stubborn a rich man is if his dollars don't aid so vast an opportunity for
doing good, would put it mildly! such downright gall by a half-grown kid to
inform him; an outstanding light on branton hills' tax list, that this town
was sliding down hill; and would soon land in an abyss of national oblivion!
and our organization girls! how branton hills' rich old widows and plump
matrons did sniff in disdain as a group of high school pupils brought forth
straightforward claims that cash paving a road, is doing good practical work,
but, in filling up a strong box, is worth nothing to our town.

oh, that class of nabobs! how thoroughly gadsby did know its parsimony!! and
how thoroughly did this hard-planning man know just what a constant onslaught
by youth could do. so, in about a month, his "organization" had "waylaid," so
to say, practically half of branton hills' cash kings; and had so won out,
through that commonly known "pull" upon an adult by a child asking for what
plainly is worthy, that his mail brought not only cash, but two rich landlords
put at his disposal, tracts of land "for any form of occupancy which can, in
any way, aid our town." this land gadsby's organization promptly put into
growing farm products for gratis distribution to branton hills' poor; and that
burning craving of youth for activity soon had it sprouting corn, squash,
potato, onion and asparagus crops; and, to "doll it up a bit," put in a patch
of blossoming plants.

naturally any man is happy at a satisfactory culmination of his plans and so,
as gadsby found that public philanthropy was but an affair of plain, ordinary
approach, it did not call for much brain work to find that, possibly also, a
way might turn up for putting handicraft instruction in branton hills'
schools; for schooling, according to him, did not consist only of books and
black-boards. hands, also should know how to construct various practical
things in woodwork, plumbing, blacksmithing, masonry, and so forth; with
thorough instruction in sanitation, and that most important of all youthful
activity, gymnastics. for girls such a school could instruct in cooking, suit
making, hat making, fancy work, art and loom-work; in fact, about any
handicraft that a girl might wish to study, and which is not in our standard
school curriculum. but as gadsby thought of such a school, no way for backing
it financially was in sight. town funds naturally, should carry it along; but
town funds and town councils do not always form what you might call -
synonymous words. so it was compulsory that cash should actually "drop into
his lap," via a continuation of solicitations by his now grandly functioning
organization of youth. so, out again trod that bunch of bright, happy kids,
putting forth such plain, straightforward facts as to what manual training
would do for branton hills, that many saw it in that light. but you will
always find a group, or individual complaining that such things would
"automatically dawn" on boys and girls without any training. old bill simpkins
was loud in his antagonism to what was a "crazy plan to dip into our town
funds just to allow boys to saw up good wood, and girls to burn up good flour,
trying to cook biscuits." kids, according to him, should go to work in branton
hills' shopping district, and profit by it.

"bah! why not start a class to show goldfish how to waltz! i didn't go to any
such school; and what am i now? a councilman! i can't saw a board straight,
nor fry a potato chip; but i can show you folks how to hang onto your town
funds."

old bill was a notorious grouch; but our organization occasionally did find a
totally varying mood. old lady flanagan, with four boys in school, and a
husband many days too drunk to work, was loud in approval.

"whoops! thot's phwat i calls a grand thing! worra, worra! i wish old man
flanagan had had sich an opporchunity. but thot ignorant old clod don't know
nuthin' but boozin', tobacca shmokin' and ditch-diggin'. and you know thot our
council ain't a-payin' for no ditch-scoopin' right now. so i'll shout for thot
school! for my boys can find out how to fix thot barn door our old cow laid
down against."

ha, ha! what a circus our organization had with such varying moods and
outlooks! but, finally such a school was built; instructors brought in from
surrounding towns; and gadsby was as happy as a cat with a ball of yarn.

as branton hills found out what it can accomplish if it starts out with vigor
and a will to win, our organization thought of laying out a big park;
furnishing an opportunity for small tots to romp and play on grassy plots; a
park for all sorts of sports, picnics, and so forth; sand pots for babyhood;
cozy arbors for girls who might wish to study, or talk. (you might, possibly,
find a girl who can talk, you know!); also shady nooks and winding paths for
old folks who might find comfort in such. gadsby thought that a park is truly
a most important adjunct to any community; for, if a growing population has no
out-door spot at which its glooms, slumps and morbid thoughts can vanish upon
wings of sunlight, amidst bright colorings of shrubs and sky, it may sink into
a grouchy, faultfinding, squabbling group; and making such a showing for
surrounding towns as to hold back any gain in population or valuation. gadsby
had a goodly plot of land in a grand location for a park and sold it to
branton hills for a dollar; that stingy council to lay it out according to his
plans. and how his organization did applaud him for this, his first "solo work
!"

but schools and parks do not fulfill all of a town's calls. many minds of
varying kinds will long for an opportunity for finding out things not
ordinarily taught in school. so branton hills' public library was found too
small. as it was now in a small back room in our high school, it should occupy
its own building; down town, and handy for all; and with additional thousands
of books and maps. now, if you think gadsby and his youthful assistants stood
aghast at such a gigantic proposition, you just don't know youth, as it is
today. but to whom could youth look for so big an outlay as a library building
would cost? books also cost; librarians and janitors draw pay. so, with light,
warmth, and all-round comforts, it was a task to stump a full-grown
politician; to say nothing of a plain, ordinary townsman and a bunch of kids.
so gadsby thought of taking two bright boys and two smart girls to washington,
to call upon a man in a high position, who had got it through branton hills'
popular ballot. now, any' politician is a convincing orator. (that is, you
know, all that politics consists of !) and this big man, in contact with a
visiting capitalist, looking for a handout for his own district, got a
donation of a thousand dollars. but that wouldn't start a public library; to
say nothing of maintaining it. so, back in branton hills, again, our
organization was out, as usual, on its war-path.

branton hills' philanthropy was now showing signs of monotony; so our
organization had to work its linguistic ability and captivating tricks full
blast, until that thousand dollars had so grown that a library was built upon
a vacant lot which had grown nothing but grass; and only a poor quality of it,
at that; and many a child and adult quickly found ways of profitably passing
odd hours.

naturally old bill simpkins was snooping around, sniffing and snorting at any
signs of making branton hills "look cityish," (a word originating in bill's
vocabulary.)

"huh!! i didn't put in any foolish hours with books in my happy childhood in
this good old town! but i got along all right; and am now having my say in its
town hall doings. books!! pooh! maps! bah!! it's silly to squat in a hot room
squinting at a lot of print! if you want to know about a thing, go to work in
a shop or factory of that kind, and find out about it first-hand."

"but, bill," said gadsby, "shops want a man who knows what to do without
having to stop to train him."

"oh, that's all bosh! if a boss shows a man what a tool is for; and if that
man is any good, at all, why bring up this stuff you call training? that man
grabs a tool, works Â‘til noon; knocks off for an hour; works Â‘til Å™

at this point in bill's blow-up an italian councilman was passing, and put in
his oar, with:-

"ha, bill! you thinka your man can worka all right, firsta day, huh? you talka
crazy so much for my boota! you lasta just a half hour. thisa library all
righta. this town too mucha what i call tight-wad!"

oh, hum!! it's a tough job making old dogs do tricks. but our organization was
now holding almost daily sittings, and soon a bright girl thought of having
band music in that now popular park. and what do you think that stingy council
did? it actually built a most fantastic band-stand; got a contract with a
first-class band, and all without so much as a councilman fainting away!! so,
finally, on a hot july sunday, two solid hours of grand harmony brought joy to
many a poor soul who had not for many a day, known that balm of comfort which
can "air out our brains' dusty corridors," and bring such happy thrills, as
music, that charming fairy, which knows no human words, can bring. around that
gaudy band-stand, at two-thirty on that first sunday, sat or stood as happy a
throng of old and young as any man could wish for; and gadsby and his "gang"
got hand-clasps and hand-claps, from all. a good band, you know, not only can
stir and thrill you; for it can play a soft crooning lullaby, a lilting waltz
or polka; or, with its wood winds, bring forth old songs of our childhood,
ballads of courting days, or hymns and carols of christmas; and can suit all
sorts of folks, in all sorts of moods; for a spaniard, dutchman or russian can
find similar joy with a man from italy, norway or far away brazil.







by now, branton hills was so proud of not only its
"smarting up," but also of its startling growth, on that account, that an
application was put forth for its incorporation as a city; a small city,
naturally, but full of that condition of youth, known as "growing pains." so
its shabby old "town hall" sign was thrown away, and a black and gold onyx
slab, with "city hall" blazing forth in vivid colors, put up, amidst band
music, flag waving, parading and oratory. in only a month from that glorious
day, gadsby found folks "primping up"; girls putting on bright ribbons, boys
finding that suits could stand a good ironing; and rich widows and portly
matrons almost outdoing any rainbow in brilliancy. an occasional shop along
broadway, which had a rattly door or shaky windows was put into first class
condition, to fit branton hills' status as a city. old bill simpkins was
strutting around, as pompous as a drum-major; for, now, that old town council
would function as a **city** council; **his** council! his own stamping
ground! according to him, from it, at no far day, "bill simpkins, city
councilman," would show an anxiously waiting world how to run a city; though
probably, i think, how not to run it.

it is truly surprising what a narrow mind, what a blind outlook a man, brought
up with practically no opposition to his boyhood wants, can attain; though
brought into contact with indisputably important data for improving his city.
our organization boys thought bill "a bit off" but gadsby would only laugh
at his blasts against paying out city funds; for, you know, all bombs don't
burst; you occasionally find a "dud."

but this furor for fixing up rattly doors or shaky windows didn't last; for
old bill's oratory found favor with a bunch of his old tight-wads, who
actually thought of inaugurating a campaign against gadsby's organization of
youth. as soon as this was known about town, that mythical pot, known as
public opinion, was boiling furiously. a vast majority stood back of gadsby
and his kids; so, old bill's ranks could count only on a small group of rich
old shylocks to whom a bank-book was a thing to look into or talk about only
annually; that is, on bank-balancing days. this small minority got up a
slogan: "why spoil a good old town?" and actually did, off and on, talk
a shopman out of fixing up his shop or grounds. this, you know, put additional
vigor into our organization; inspiring a boy to bring up a plan for calling a
month,-- say july,--"pick-up, paint-up and wash-up month;" for it was a plain
fact that, all about town, was many a shabby spot; a lot of buildings could
stand a good coat of paint, and yards raking up; thus showing surrounding
towns that not only could branton hills "doll up," but had a class of
inhabitants who gladly would go at such a plan, and carry it through. so
gadsby got his "gang" out, to sally forth and any man or woman who did not
jump, at first, at such a plan by vigorous youth, was always brought around,
through noticing how poorly a shabby yard did look. so gadsby put in branton
hills' "post" this stirring call:-

"raking up your yard or painting your building is simply improving it both in
worth; artistically and from a utilization standpoint. i know that many a city
front lawn is small; but, if it is only fairly big, a walk, cut curvingly,
will add to it, surprisingly. that part of a walk which runs to your front
door could show rows of small rocks rough and natural; and grading from small
to big; but no Â‘hit-or-miss' layout. you can so fix up your yard as to form
an approach to unity in plan with such as adjoin you; though without actual
duplication; thus providing harmony for all who may pass by.

it is, in fact, but a bit of city planning; and anybody who aids in such work
is a most worthy inhabitant so, cut your scraggly lawns! trim your old,
shaggy shrubs! bring into artistic form, your grass-grown walks !"

(now, naturally, in writing such a story as this, with its conditions as laid
down in its introduction, it is not surprising that an occasional "rough spot"
in composition is found. so i trust that a critical public will hold
constantly in mind that i am voluntarily avoiding words containing that symbol
which is, by far, of most common inclusion in writing our anglo-saxon as it
is, today. many of our most common words cannot show; so i must adopt
synonyms; and so twist a thought around as to say what i wish with as much
clarity as i can.)

so, now to go on with this odd contraption:

by autumn, a man who took his vacation in july, would hardly know his town
upon coming back, so thoroughly had thousands "dug in" to aid in its
transformation.

"boys," said gadsby. "you can pat your own backs, if you can't find anybody to
do it for you. this city is proud of you. and, girls, just sing with joy; for
not only is your city proud of you, but i am, too."

"but how about you, sir, and your work?"

this was from frank; a boy brought up to think fairly on all things. "oh,"
said gadsby laughingly, "i didn't do much of anything but boss you young folks
around. if our council awards any diplomas, i don't want any. i would look
ridiculous strutting around with a diploma with a pink ribbon on it, now
wouldn't i!"

this talk of diplomas was as a bolt from a bright sky to this young, hustling
bunch. but, though gadsby's words did sound as though a grown man wouldn't
want such a thing, that wasn't saying that a young boy or girl wouldn't; and
with this surprising possibility ranking in young minds, many a kid was in an
anti-soporific condition for parts of many a night.

but a kindly councilman actually did bring up a bill about this diploma
affair, and his collaborators put it through; which naturally brought up talk
as how to award such diplomas. at last it was thought that a big public affair
at city hall, with our organization on a platform, with branton hills' mayor
and council, would furnish an all-round, satisfactory way.

such an occasion was worthy of a lot of planning; and a first thought was for
flags and bunting on all public buildings; with a grand illumination at night.
stationary lights should glow from all points on which a light could stand,
hang, or swing; and gigantic rays should swoop and swish across clouds and
sky. bands should play; boys and girls march and sing; and a vast crowd would
pour into city hall. as on similar occasions, a bad rush for chairs was apt to
occur, a company of military units should occupy all important points, to hold
back anything simulating a jam.

now, if you think our organization wasn't all agog and wild, with youthful
anticipation at having a diploma for work out of school hours, you just don't
know youth. boys and girls, though not full grown inhabitants of a city, do
know what will add to its popularity; and having had a part in bringing about
such conditions, it was but natural to look back upon such, as any military
man might at winning a difficult fight.

so, finally our big day was at hand! that it might not cut into school hours,
it was on a saturday; and, by noon, about a thousand kids, singing, shouting
and waving flags, stood in formation at city park, awaiting** **with growing
thrills, a signal which would start as big a turn-out as branton hills had
known in all its history. up at city hall awaiting arrivals of city officials,
a big crowd sat; row upon row of chairs which not only took up all floor room,
but also many a small spot, in door-way or on a balcony in which a chair or
stool could find footing; and all who could not find such an opportunity
willingly stood in back. just as a group of officials sat down on that flag-
bound platform, distant throbbing of drums, and bright, snappy band music told
of branton hills approaching thousands of kids, who, finally marching in
through city hall's main door, stood in a solid mass around that big room.

naturally gadsby had to put his satisfaction into words; and, advancing to a
mahogany stand, stood waiting for a storm of hand-clapping and shouts to quit,
and said:

"your honor, mayor of branton hills, its council, and all you out in front:
if you would only stop rating a child's ability by your own; and try to find
out just what ability a child has, our young folks throughout this big world
would show a surprisingly willing disposition to try things which would bring
your approbation. a child's brain is an astonishing thing. it has, in its
construction, an astounding capacity for absorbing what is brought to it; and
not only to think about, but to find ways for improving it. it is today's
child who, tomorrow, will, you know, laugh at our ways of doing things. so, in
putting across this campaign of building up our community into a municipality
which has won acclaim, not only from its officials and inhabitants, but from
surrounding towns i found, in our young folks, an out-and-out inclination to
assist; and you, today, can look upon it as labor in which your adult aid was
but a small factor. so now, my organization of youth, if you will pass across
this platform, your mayor will hand you your diplomas."

not in all branton hills' history had any boy or girl known such a thrill as
upon winning that hard-won roll! and from solid banks of humanity roars of
congratulation burst forth. as soon as mayor brown shook hands (and such tiny,
warm, soft young hands, too!) with all, a big out-door lunch was found waiting
on a charming lawn back of city hall; and this was no world war mobilization
lunch of doughnuts and a hot dog sandwich; but, as two of gadsby's sons said,
was an all-round, good, big fill-up;" and many a boy's and girl's "tummy" was
soon as round and taut as a balloon.

as twilight was turning to dusk, boys in an adjoining lot shot skyward a
crashing bomb, announcing a grand illumination as a fitting climax for so
glorious a day; and thousands sat on rock-walls, grassy knolls, in cars or at
windows, with a big crowd standing along curbs and crosswalks. myriads of
lights of all colors, in solid balls, sprays, sparkling fountains, and bursts
of glory, shot, in criss-cross paths, up and down, back and forth, across a
star-lit sky; providing a display without a par in local annals.

but not only did youth thrill at so fantastic a show. adults had many a fourth
of july brought back from a distant past; in which our national custom wound
up our most important holiday with a similar display; only, in our fourths of
long ago, horrifying, gigantic concussions would disturb old folks and
invalids until midnight; at which hour, according to law, all such carrying-
on must stop. but did it? possibly in your town, but not around my district!
all fourth of july outfits don't always function at first, you know; and no
kid, (or adult!) would think of quitting until that last pop should pop; or
that last bang should bang. and so, many a dawn on july fifth found things
still going, full blast.

youth cannot stay for long in a condition of inactivity;
and so, for only about a month did things so stand, until a particularly
bright girl in our organization, thought out a plan for caring for infants of
folks who had to go out, to work; and this bright kid soon had a group of
girls who would join, during vacation, in voluntarily giving up four days a
month to such work. with about fifty girls collaborating, all districts had
this most gracious aid; and a girl would not only watch and guard, but would
also instruct, as far as practical, any such tot as had not had its first
schooling. such work by young girls still in school was a grand thing; and
gadsby not only stood up for such loyalty, but got at his boys to find a
similar plan; and soon had a full troop of boy scouts; uniforms and all. this
automatically brought about a girl scout unit; and, through a collaboration of
both, a form of club sprang up. it was a club in which any boy or girl of a
family owning a car would call mornings for pupils having no cars, during
school days, for a trip to school and back. this was not only a saving in long
walks for many, but also took from a young back, that hard, tiring strain from
lugging such armfuls of books as you find pupils laboriously carrying, today.
upon arriving at a school building, many cars would unload so many books that
gadsby said:

"you would think that a public library branch was moving in !" this car work
soon brought up a thought of giving similar aid to ailing adults; who, not
owning a car, could not know of that vast display of hill and plain so common
to a majority of our townsfolks. so a plan was laid, by which a car would call
two days a month; and for an hour or so, follow roads winding out of town and
through woods, farm lands and suburbs; showing distant ponds, and that grand
arch of sky which "shut-ins" know only from photographs. ah; how that plan
did stir up joyous anticipation amongst such as thus had an opportunity to
call upon old, loving pals, and talk of old customs and past days!
occasionally such a talk would last so long that a youthful motorist, waiting
dutifully at a curb, thought that a full family history of both host and
visitor was up for an airing. but old folks always will talk and it will not
do a boy or girl any harm to wait; for, you know, that boy or girl will act in
just that way, at a not too far-off day!

but, popular as this touring plan was, it had to stop; for school again took
all young folks from such out-door activity. nobody was so sorry at this as
gadsby, for though branton hills' suburban country is glorious from march to
august, it is also strong in its attractions throughout autumn, with its
artistic colorings of fruits, pumpkins, corn-shocks, hay-stacks and fall
blossoms. so gadsby got a big motor-coach company to run a bus a day,
carrying, gratis, all poor or sickly folks who had a doctor's affidavit that
such an outing would aid in curing ills arising from too constant in-door
living; and so, up almost to thanksgiving, this big coach ran daily.

as spring got around again, this "man-of-all-work" thought of driving away a
shut-in invalid's monotony by having musicians go to such rooms, to play; or,
by taking along a vocalist or trio, sing such old songs as always bring back
happy days. this work gadsby thought of paying for by putting on a circus. and
was it a circus? it was!! it had boys forming both front and hind limbs of
animals totally unknown to zoology; girls strutting around as gigantic birds
of also doubtful origin; an array of small living animals such as trick dogs
and goats, a dancing pony, a group of imitation indians, cowboys, cowgirls, a
kicking trick jack-ass; and, talk about clowns! forty boys got into baggy
pantaloons and fools' caps; and no circus, including that first of all shows
in noah's ark, had so much going on. gymnasts from our school gymnasium,
tumbling, jumping and racing; comic dancing; a clown band; high-swinging
artists, and a funny cop who didn't wait to find out who a man was, but hit
him anyway. and, as no circus is a circus without boys shouting wildly about
pop-corn and cold drinks, gadsby saw to it that such boys got in as many
patrons way as any ambitious youth could; and that is "going strong," if you
know boys, at all!

but what about profits? it not only paid for all acts which his organization
couldn't put on, but it was found that a big fund for many a day's musical
visitations, was on hand.

and, now a word or two about municipal affairs in this city; or any city, in
which nobody will think of doing anything about its poor and sick, without a
vigorous prodding up. city councils, now-a-days, willingly grant big
appropriations for paving, lights, schools, jails, courts, and so on; but
invariably fight shy of charity; which is nothing but sympathy for anybody who
is "down and out."

no man can say that charity will not, during coming days, aid him in
supporting his family; and it was gadsby's claim that humans:not blocks of
buildings, form what mankind calls a city. but what would big, costly
buildings amount to, if all who work in such cannot maintain that good
physical condition paramount in carrying on a city's various forms of labor?
and not only physical good, but also a mind happy from lack of worry and of
that stagnation which always follows a monotonous daily grind. so our
organization was soon out again, agitating city officials and civilians toward
building a big auditorium in which all kinds of shows and sports could occur,
with also a swimming pool and hot and cold baths. such a building cannot so
much as start without financial backing; but gradually many an iron-bound bank
account was drawn upon (much as you pull a tooth!), to buy bonds. also, such a
building won't grow up in a night; nor was a spot upon which to put it found
without a lot of agitation; many wanting it in a down-town district; and also,
many who had vacant land put forth all sorts of claims to obtain cash for lots
upon which a big tax was paid annually, with-out profits. but all such things
automatically turn out satisfactorily to a majority; though an ugly, squawk
that "municipal graft" was against him.

now gadsby was vigorously against graft; not only in city affairs but in any
kind of transaction; and that stab brought forth such a flow of oratory from
him, that as voting for mayor was soon to occur, it, and a long list of good
works, soon had him up for that position. but gadsby didn't want such a
nomination; still, thousands of towns- folks who had known him from childhood,
would not hark to anything but his candidacy; and, soon, on window cards,
signs, and flags across broadway, was his photograph and "**gadsby for mayor";
**and a campaign was on which still rings in branton hills' history as "hot
stuff!" four aspiring politicians ran in opposition; and, as all had good
backing, and gadsby only his public works to fall back on, things soon got
looking gloomy for him. his antagonists, standing upon soap box, auto truck,
or hastily built platforms, put forth, with prodigious vim, claims that "our
fair city will go back to its original oblivion if i am not its mayor !" but
our organization now took a hand, most of which, now out of high school. was
growing up rapidly; and anybody who knows anything at all about branton hills'
history, knows that, if this band of bright, loyal pals of gadsby's was out to
attain a goal, it was mighty apt to start things humming, to say that gadsby's
rivals got a bad jolt as it got around town that his "bunch of warriors" was
aiding him, would put it but mildly. two quit instantly, saying that this
is a day of youth and no adult has half a show against it! but two still hung
on; clinging to a sort of fond fantasy that gadsby, not naturally a public
sort of man, might voluntarily drop out. but, had gadsby so much as thought of
such an action, his organization would quickly laugh it to scorn.

"why, good gracious !" said frank morgan, "if anybody should sit in that
mayor's chair in city hall, it's you! just look at what you did to boost
branton hills! until you got it a-going it had but two thousand inhabitants;
now it has sixty thousand! and just ask your rivals to point to any part of it
that you didn't build up. look at our public library, municipal band,
occupational class rooms; auto and bus trips; and your circus which paid for
music for sick folks. with you as mayor, boy! what an opportunity to boss
and swing things your own way! why, anything you might say is as good as law;
and--"

"now, hold on, boy!**" **said gadsby, "a mayor can't boss things in any such a
way as you think. a mayor has a council, which has to pass on all bills
brought up; and, my boy, upon arriving at manhood, you'll find that a mayor
who can boss a council around, is a most uncommon bird. and as for a mayor's
word amounting to a law, it's a mighty good thing that it can't! why, a mayor
can't do much of anything, today, frank, without a bunch of crazy bat-brains
stirring up a rumpus about his acts looking Â‘suspiciously shady.' now that is
a bad condition in which to find a city, frank. you boy's don't know anything
about graft; but as you grow up you will find many flaws in a city's laws ;
but also many points thoroughly good and fair. just try to think what a city
would amount to if a solitary man could control its law making, as a king or
sultan of old. that was why so many millions of inhabitants would start wars
and riots against a tyrant; for many a king was a tyrant, frank, and had no
thought as to how his laws would suit his thousands of rich and poor. a law
that might suit a rich man, might work all kinds of havoc with a poor family."

"but," said frank. "why should a king pass a law that would dissatisfy anybody
?"

gadsby's parry to this rising youthful ambition for light on political affairs
was:

"why will a duck go into a pond?" and frank found that though a growing young
man might know a thing or two, making laws for a city was a man's job.

so, with a mayoralty campaign on his hands, plus planning for that big
auditorium, gadsby was as busy as a fly around a syrup jug; for a mass of
campaign mail had to go out; topics for orations thought up; and contacts with
his now truly important organization of youth, took so many hours out of his
days that his family hardly saw him, at all. noon naturally stood out as a
good opportunity for oratory, as thousands, out for lunch, would stop, in
passing. but, also, many a hall rang with plaudits as an antagonist won a
point; but many a throng saw gadsby's good points, and plainly told him so by
turning out voluminously at any point at which his oratory was to flow. it was
truly miraculous how this man of shy disposition, found words in putting forth
his plans for improving branton hills, town of his birth. many an orator has
grown up from an unassuming individual who had things worth saying; and who,
through that curious facility which is born of a conviction that his plans had
a practical basis, won many a ballot against such prolific flows of high-
sounding words as his antagonists had in stock. many a night gadsby was "all
in," as his worn-out body and an aching throat sought his downy couch. no
campaign is a cinch.

with so many minds amongst a city's population, just that many calls for this
or that swung back and forth until that most important of all days, --voting
day, was at hand. what crowds, mobs and jams did assail all polling booths
casting ballots to land a party-man in city hall! if a voting booth was in a
school building, as is a common custom pupils had that day off; and, as gadsby
was youth's champion, groups of kids hung around, watching and hoping with
that avidity so common with youth, that gadsby would win by a majority unknown
in branton hills and gadsby did!

as soon as it was shown by official count, branton hills was a riot, from city
hall to city limits; throngs tramping around, tossing hats aloft; for a hard-
working man had won what many thousands thought was fair and just.

as soon as gadsby's inauguration had put him in a position
to do things with authority, his first act was to start things moving on that
big auditorium plan, for which many capitalists had bought bonds. again public
opinion had a lot to say as to how such a building should look, what it should
contain; how long, how high, how costly; with a long string of ifs and buts.

family upon family put forth claims for rooms for public forums in which
various thoughts upon world affairs could find opportunity for discussion;
salvation army officials thought that a big hall for a public sunday school
class would do a lot of good; and that, lastly, what i must, from this odd
yarn's strict orthography, call a "film show," should, without doubt occupy a
part of such a building. anyway, talk or no talk, gadsby said that it should
stand as a building for man, woman and child; rich or poor; and, barring its
"film show," without cost to anybody. branton hills' folks could thus swim, do
gymnastics, talk on public affairs, or "just sit and gossip", at will. so it
was finally built in a charming park amidst shrubs and blossoms; an additional
honor for gadsby.

but such buildings as branton hills now had could not fulfill all functions of
so rapidly growing a city; for you find, occasionally, a class of folks who
cannot afford a doctor, if ill. this was brought up by a girl of our
organization, doris johnson, who, on christmas day, in taking gifts to a poor
family, had found a woman critically ill, and with no funds for aid or
comforts; and instantly, in doris' quick young mind a vision of a big city
hospital took form; and, on a following day gadsby had his organization at
city hall, to "just talk," (and you know how that bunch can talk!) to a
councilman or two.

now, if any kind of a building in all this big world costs good, hard cash to
build, and furnish, it is a hospital; and it is also a building which a public
knows nothing about. so mayor gadsby saw that if his council would pass an
appropriation for it, no such squabbling as had struck his municipal
auditorium plan, would occur. but gadsby forgot branton hills' landlords, all
of whom had "a most glorious spot," just right for a hospital; until, finally,
a group of physicians was told to look around. and did branton hills'
landlords call upon branton hills' physicians? i'll say so!! anybody visiting
town, not knowing what was going on, would think that vacant land was as
common as raindrops in a cloudburst. small plots sprang into public light
which couldn't hold a poultry barn, to say nothing of a big city hospital. but
no grasping landlord can fool physicians in talking up a hospital location, so
it was finally built, on high land, with a charming vista across branton
hills' suburbs and distant hills; amongst which gadsby's charity auto and bus
trips took so many happy invalids on past hot days.

now it is only fair that our boys** **and girls of this famous organization of
youth, should walk forward for an introduction to you. so i will bring forth
such bright and loyal girls as doris johnson, dorothy fitts, lucy donaldson,
marian hopkins, priscilla standish, abigail worthington, sarah young, and
virginia adams. among our boys, cast a fond look upon arthur rankin, frank
morgan, john hamilton, paul johnson, oscar knott and william snow; as smart a
bunch of youth as you could find in a month of sundays.

as soon as our big hospital was built and functioning, sarah young arid
priscilla standish, in talking with groups of girls, had found a longing for a
night-school, as so many folks had to work all day, so couldn't go to our
manual training school. so mayor gadsby took it up with branton hills school
board. now school boards do not always think in harmony with mayors and
councils; in fact, what with school boards, councils, taxation boards, paving
contractors, sunday closing-hour agitations, railway rights of way, and all-
round political "mud-slinging," a mayor has a tough job.

two of gadsby's school board said "no!" a right out-loud, slam-bang big "no!!"
two thought that a night school was a good thing; but four, with a faint glow
of financial wisdom, (a rarity in politics, today!) saw no cash in sight for
such an institution.

but gadsby's famous organization won again! branton hills did not contain a
family in which this organization wasn't known; and many a sock was brought
out from hiding, and many a sofa pillow cut into, to aid any plan in which
this group had a part.

but, just as funds had grown to what mayor gadsby thought would fill all such
wants, a row in council as to this fund's application got so hot that "his
honor" got mad ; mighty ,mad!! and said:- "why is it that any bill for
appropriations coming up in this council has to kick up such a rumpus? why
can't you look at such things with a public mind; for nothing can so aid
toward passing bills as harmony. this city is not holding off an attacking
army. branton hills is not a pack of wild animals, snapping and snarling by
day; jumping, at a crackling twig, at night. it is a city of humans;
animals, if you wish, but with a gift from on high of a brain, so far apart
from all dumb animals as to allow us to talk about our public affairs calmly
and thoughtfully. all this night school rumpus is foolish. naturally, what
is taught in such a school is an important factor; so i want to find out from
our organization --"

at this point, old bill simpkins got up, with: "this organization of youth
stuff puts a kink in my spinal column! almost all of it is through school. so
how can you bring such a group forward as Â‘pupils?'"

"a child," said gadsby, "who had such schooling as branton hills affords is,
naturally, still a pupil; for many will follow up a study if an opportunity is
at hand. many adults also carry out a custom of brushing up on unfamiliar
topics; thus, also, ranking as pupils. possibly, bill, if you would look up
that word Â‘pupil,' you wouldn't find so much fault with insignificant data."

"all right!" was simpkins' snap-back; "but what i want to know is, what our
big public library is for. your Â‘pupils' can find all sorts of information in
that big building. so why build a night school? it's nothing but a
duplication!"

"a library," said gadsby, is** **not a school. it has no instructors; you
cannot talk in its rooms. you may find a book or two on your study, or you may
not. you would find it a big handicap if you think that you can accomplish
much with no aid but that of a public library. young folks know what young
folks want to study.** **it is foolish, say, to install a class in astronomy,
for although it is a night school, its pupils' thoughts might not turn
toward mars, saturn or shooting stars; but shorthand, including training for
typists amongst adults who, naturally don't go to day schools, is most
important, today; also history and corporation law; and i know that a study of
music would attract many. any man or woman who works all day, but still wants
to study at night, should find an opportunity for doing so."

this put a stop to councilman simpkins' criticisms, and approval was put upon
gadsby's plan; and it was but shortly that this school's popularity was shown
in a most amusing way. branton hills folks, in passing it on going out for a
show or social call, caught most savory whiffs, as its cooking class was
producing doughnuts and biscuits; for a miss chapman, long famous as a cook
for branton hills' woman's club, had about forty girls finding out about that
magic art. so, too, occasionally a cranky old councilman, who had fought
against "this foolish night school proposition," would pass by; and, oh, hum!!
a councilman is only an animal, you know; and, on cooking class nights, such
an animal, unavoidably drawn by that wafting aroma, would go in, just a bit
humiliatingly, and, in praising miss chapman for doing "such important work
for our young girls," would avidly munch a piping hot biscuit or a sizzling
doughnut from a young girl's hand, who, a month ago, couldn't fry a slab of
bacon without burning it.

just as gadsby was thinking nothing was now lacking in
branton hills, a child in a poor family got typhoid symptoms from drinking
from a small brook at a picnic and, without any aid from our famous
organization, a public clamor was forthcoming for municipal district nursing,
as so many folks look with horror at going to a hospital. now district nursing
calls for no big appropriation; just salary, a first-aid outfit, a supply of
drugs and so forth; and, now-a-days, a car. and, to branton hills' honor four
girls who had had nursing training soon brought, not only small comforts, but
important ministrations to a goodly part of our population. in districts
without this important municipal function, common colds may run into long-
drawn-out attacks; and contagion can not only shut up a school or two but
badly handicap all forms of public activity.

"too many small towns," said gadsby, "try to go without public nursing;
calling it foolish, and claiming that a family ought to look out for its own
sick. but! should a high mortality, such as, this nation has known, occur
again, such towns will frantically broadcast a call for girls with nursing
training; and wish that a silly, cash-saving custom hadn't brought such
critical conditions."

at this point i want to bring forward an individual who has had a big part in
branton hills' growth; but who, up to now, has not shown up in this history.
you know that gadsby had a family, naturally including a woman; and that woman
was fondly and popularly known throughout town as lady gadsby; a rank
fittingly matching gadsby's "his honor," upon his inauguration as mayor. lady
gadsby was strongly in favor of all kinds of clubs or associations; organizing
a most worthy charity club, a book club and a political auxiliary. it was but
a natural growth from woman's part in politics, both municipal and national;
and which, in many a city, has had much to say toward nominations of good
officials, and running many a crook out of town; for no crook, nor "gang boss"
can hold out long if up against a strong woman's club. though it was long
thought that woman's brain was minor in comparison with man's, woman, as a
class, now-a-day shows an all-round activity; and has brought staid control to
official actions which had had a long run through domination by man;-- that
proud, cocky, strutting animal who thinks that this gigantic world should hop,
skip and jump at his commands. so, from, or through just such clubs as lady
gadsby's, branton hills was soon attracting folks from surrounding districts;
in fact, it was known as a sort of fairyland in which all things turn out
satisfactorily. this was, plainly, a condition which would call for much
additional building; which also brings additional tax inflow; so branton hills
was rapidly growing into a most important community. so, at a school board
lunch, his honor said: "i trust that now you will admit that what i said long
ago about making a city an attraction to tourists, is bringing daily
confirmation. oh, what a lot of politically blind city and town officials i
could point out within a day's auto trip from branton hills! many such an
official, upon winning a foothold in city hall, thinks only of his own
cohorts, and his own gain. so it is not surprising that public affairs grow
stagnant. truly, i cannot fathom such minds! i can think of nothing so
satisfying as doing public good in as many ways as an official can. think, for
an instant, as to just what a city is. as i said long ago, it is not an array
of buildings, parks and fountains. no. a city is a living thing! it is,
actually, human; for it is a group of humanity growing up in daily contact;
and if officials adopt as a slogan, "all i can do," and not "all i can grab,"
only its suburban boundary can limit its growth. branton hills attracts
thousands, annually. all of that influx looks for comforts, an opportunity to
work, and good schools. branton hills has all that; and i want to say that all
who visit us, with thoughts of joining us, will find us holding out a glad
hand; promising that all such fond outlooks will find confirmation at any spot
within cannon-shot of city hall."

at this point, a woman from just such a group got up, saying: "i want to back
up your mayor. on my first visit to your charming city i saw an opportunity
for my family; and, with woman's famous ability for arguing, i got my husband
to think as i do; and not an hour from that day has brought us any
dissatisfaction. your schools stand high in comparison with any out our way;
your shops carry first-class goods, your laws act without favoritism for
anybody or class; and an air of happy-go-lucky conditions actually shouts at
you, from all parts of town."

now, as months slid past it got around to night school graduation day; and as
it was this institution's first, all branton hills was on hand, packing its
big hall. an important part was a musical half-hour by its big chorus, singing
such grand compositions as arias from faust, robin hood, aida, and martha;
also both boys' and girls' bands, both brass and strings, doing first-class
work on a sousa march, a strauss waltz, and a potpourri of national airs from
many lands, which brought a storm of hand clapping; for no form of study will
so aid youth in living happily, as music. ability to play or sing; to know
what is good or poor in music, instills into young folks a high quality of
thought; and, accuracy is found in its rigidity of rhythm.

as soon as this music class was through, gadsby brought forth soloists, duos
and trios; violinists, pianists, and so many young musicians that branton
hills was as proud of its night school as a girl is of "that first diamond."
that brought our program around to introducing pupils who had won honor marks:
four girls in knitting, oil painting, cooking and journalism; and four smart
youths in brass work, wood-carving and corporation law. but pupils do not form
all of a school body; so a group of blushing instructors had to bow to an
applauding roomful.

though this was a school graduation, mayor gadsby said it would do no harm to
point out a plan for still adding to branton hills' public spirit

"this town is too plain; too dingy. brick walls and asphalt paving do not
light up a town, but dim it. so i want to plant all kinds of growing things
along many of our curbs. in our parks i want ponds with gold fish, fancy ducks
and big swans; row-boats, islands with arbors, and lots of shrubs that
blossom; not just an array of twigs and stalks. i want, in our big city park,
a casino, dancing pavilion, lunch rooms; and parkings for as many cars as can
crowd in. so i think that all of us ought to pitch in and put a bright array
of natural aids round about; both in our shopping district and suburbs; for
you know that old saying, that Â‘a charming thing is a joy always.'"

so a miraculous transformation of any spot at all dull was soon a fact. oak,
birch and poplar saplings stood along curbs and around railway stations; girls
brought in willow twigs, ivy roots, bulbs of canna, dahlia, calladium, tulip,
jonquil, gladiola and hyacinth. boys also dug many woodland shrubs which,
standing along railway tracks, out of town, took away that gloomy vista so
commonly found upon approaching a big city; and a long grassplot, with a rim
of boxwood shrubs, was laid out, half way from curb to curb on broadway, in
branton hills' financial district. as gadsby was looking at all this with
happy satisfaction, a bright lad from our night school's radio class, told him
that branton hills should install a broadcasting station, as no city, today,
would think of trying to win additional population without that most important
adjunct for obtaining publicity. so any man or boy who had any knack at radio
was all agog; and about a thousand had ambitions for a job in it, at which
only about six can work. and city hall had almost a riot, as groups of
politicians, pastors and clubs told just what such a station should, and
should not broadcast; for a broadcasting station, with its vast opportunity
for causing both satisfaction and antagonism, must hold rigidly aloof from any
racial favoritism, church, financial or nationality criticisms; and such a
policy is, as any broadcasting station will admit, most difficult of adoption.
first of all stood that important position of what you might call "studio
boss." although a man in control of a station is not known as "boss," i think
it will pass in this oddly built-up story. now i am going to boost our famous
organization again, by stating that a boy from its ranks, frank morgan, was
put in; for it was a hobby of gadsby to put branton hills boys in branton
hills municipal jobs. so frank, right away, got all sorts of calls for hours
or half hours to broadcast "most astounding bargains in clothing, salad oils,
motor oils, motor "gas", soaps, cars, and tooth brush lubricants.

with a big fall campaign for washington officials about to start, such a
position as frank's was chuck full of pitfalls; a stiff proposition for a
young chap, not long out of high school. but gadsby took him in hand.

"now, boy, hold your chin up, and you will find that most folks, though cranky
or stubborn at first, will follow your rulings if you insist, in a civil way,
that you know all our national radio commission's laws binding your station.
millions, of all kinds, will dial in your station; and what would highly
satisfy a group in colorado might actually insult a man down in florida; for
radio's wings carry far. you know i'll back you up, boy. but now, what would
you call this station?"

"oh ," said our tyro-boss; a radio station should work with initials showing
its location. so a branton hills station could stand as kbh."

such initials, ringing with civic patriotism, hit gadsby just right; his
council put it in writing; and "station kbh" was born! though it is not
important to follow it from now on, i will say that our vast country, by
tuning in on kbh, found out a lot about this utopia.

"you know that good old yarn," said gadsby, "about making so good a rat-trap
that millions will tramp down your grass in making a path to your front door."

now don't think that** **our famous organization, having
shown its worth on so many occasions, sat down without thinking of doing
anything again. no, sir! not this bunch! if a boy or girl thought of any
addition to branton hills' popularity it was brought to mayor gadsby for
consultation. and so, as lucy donaldson on a trip through a patch of woods,
saw a big stag looking out from a clump of shrubs, nothing would do but to
rush to his honor to pour what thoughts that charming sight had brought up in
this bright young mind. so, as gadsby stood at city hall's front door, this
palpitating, gushing young girl ran towards him, panting and blowing from a
long run

"i want a zoo!

"a what?"

"a zoo!! you know! a park with stags and all kinds of wild animals; and a
duck pond, and, and, and"

"whoa! slow down a bit! do you want an actual zoo, or an outfit of toys that
wind up and growl ?"

"i want a truly, out-and-out, big zoo. why can't you build walls around a part
of city park, and..."

gadsby saw that this was an addition which nobody had thought of, until now;
so, grasping his young visitor's hand, joyfully, said:-

"it's a fact, lucy!! and, as you thought of it, i'll call it, --now wait;
--what shall i call it? aha! that's it! i'll call it Â‘lucy zoo'. how's that
for quick thinking?"

"my! that's just grand; but what will papa say?"

now gadsby had known lucy's family from boyhood, so said:"you inform your
dad that at any sign of balking by him, i'll put him in lucy zoo, and pay a
boy to prod him with a sharp stick, until his approval is in my hands." this
brought such a rollicking laugh that a man mowing city hall lawn had to laugh,
too.

now, (ah! but i can't avoid saying it!) our organization was out again; but,
now having grown a bit from such childish youths as had, at first stood in its
ranks, a boy, now approaching manhood, and a girl, now a young woman, could
solicit funds with an ability to talk knowingly in favor of any factor that a
hanging-back contributor could bring up in running down such a proposition.
you can always count on finding that class in any city or town upon any
occasion for public works; but i can proudly say that many saw good in our
organization's plan; and lucy soon found that out, in old lady flanagan.

"whoops! a zoo, is it? and pray, phwat can't thot crazy gadsby think up? if
our big mayor had four sich bys as i brought into this woild; worra, worra!
his parlor, halls, dinin' room an back yard'd furnish him wid a zoo, all
right! wid two always a-scrappin' about a ball bat or a sling shot; a brat
continually a-bawlin' about nuthin'; an' a baby wid whoopin' cough, i know
phwat a zoo is, widout goin' to city park to gawk at a indigo baboon, or a
pink tom cat."

"but," said lucy, trying hard not to laugh; "mayor gadsby isn't thinking of
putting in pink tom cats, nor any kind of tom cats in this zoo. it is for only
wild animals."

"wild!! say, if you could look into my back door as old man flanagan quits
work, an brings back a load o' grog, you'd find thot you had wild animals
roight in this town, all roight, all roight."

but, as on so many occasions, this charming girl got a contribution, with old
lady flanagan calling out from a front window:-

"good luck, lucy darlin'! i'm sorry i was so dom cranky!"

but though popular opinion was in favor of having a zoo, popular opinion
didn't hand in donations to within four thousand dollars of what it would cost
to install; and gadsby and his "gang" had to do a bit of brain racking, so as
not to disappoint lots of good folks who had paid in. finally, sarah young
thought of a rich woman living just across from city park. this woman, lady
standish, was of that kind, loving disposition which would bring in a cold,
hungry, lost pup, or cat, and fill it up with hot food and milk. branton hills
kids could bring any kind of a hurt or sick animal or bird; and sarah had long
known that that back yard was, actually, a small zoo, anyway; with dogs, cats,
poultry, two robins too young to fly, four sparrows and a canary, almost bald.
sarah thought that any woman, loving animals as lady standish did, might just
thrill at having a big zoo-ful right at hand. so, saying, "i'll go and find
out, right now", was off as an arrow from a bow. as soon as this kindly woman
found out what was on sarah's mind, our young solicitor got a loving kiss,
with: "a zoo! oh! how truly charming! what grand things mayor gadsby can
think up without half trying !" and sarah had to grin, thinking of lucy, and
old lady flanagan's opinion of his honor! "you may not know it, sarah," said
lady standish, "but john gadsby and i had a big flirtation, way back in our
school days. and how downcast poor johnny was at my finding a husband out of
town! but that was long, long ago, darling. so, just to sort of pacify my old
pal, john, i'll gladly put up your missing four thousand; and you go to his
honor and say that i wish him all sorts of good luck with this plan."

now, olympic champions must train continuously, but, customarily, in
gymnasiums. but today, folks in branton hills' shopping district had to turn
and gasp; for a young woman was sprinting wildly toward city hall; for sarah
was in a hurry. gadsby was just coming out, as this girl, as badly blown as
lucy was in asking for a zoo, ran up, calling out:- "i got it!! i got it!!"

"got what? a fit?"

"no! i got that final four thousand dollars! it's from lady standish, who says
that way back in school days, you and--"

"whoa!! that was back in history?" but gadsby was blushing, and sarah was
winking, coyly.

now gadsby was as fond of his organization boys and girls as of his own; and
sarah was so radiantly happy that all his honor could say was:

"my, now, sarah! that's mighty good work! and as i told lucy i'd call our zoo
lucy zoo for thinking of it, i'll find a way to honor you, too. aha! i'll
put up a big arch, through which all visitors must pass, and call it Â‘sarah
young's rainbow arch.' how's that?"

now sarah had a bit of natural wit; so quickly said:-

"that's just grand if you'll bury that famous pot of gold at its foot, so i
can dig it up!"

now that a zoo was actually on its way, gadsby had to call
in various groups to talk about what a zoo should contain. now, you know that
all animals can't find room in this orthographically odd story; so, if you
visit lucy zoo, you'll miss a customary inhabitant, or two. but you'll find an
array worthy of your trip. so a call was put in two big daily journals, asking
for bids on animals and birds; and soon, from north, south and criss-cross
points, a hunting party or a city with too many zoo animals on hand got in
touch with branton hills, with proposals for all kinds of animals, from
kangaroos to bats; and our organization had a lot of fun planning how many it
could crowd into city park, without crowding out visitors. finally a ballot
put lucy's zoological population as follows:

first, according to lucy, "an awfully, awfully big hippopotamus, with a pool
for its comfort ;" a yak, caribou, walrus, (also with a pool,) a long fox-run,
bisons, gnus, stags, (it was a stag, you know, that got this zoo plan going!),
alligators, mountain lions, african lions, wild cats, wild boars, llamas,
gorillas, baboons, orang-outangs, mandrils; and, according to gadsby's boys,
a "big gang" of that amusing, tiny mimic always found accompanying hand-
organs. also an aviary, containing condors, buzzards, parrots, ibis, macaws,
adjutant birds, storks, owls, quail, falcons, tiny humming birds, a sprinkling
of hawks, mocking birds, swans, fancy ducks, toucans; and a host of small
singing birds; and oh! without fail, an ostrich family; and, last, but most
important of all, a big first cousin of old jumbo! a big glass building would
hold boa constrictors, pythons, cobras, lizards, and so forth; and down in
back of all this, an outdoor aquarium, full of goldfish, rainbow trout,
various fancy fish and blossoming aquatic plants. all in all it would furnish
a mighty amusing and popular spot which would draw lots of out-of-town
visitors; and visitors, you know, might turn into inhabitants! and so things
finally got around to inauguration day; and, knowing that no kid could sit
still in school on such an occasion, it was put down for a saturday; and, so
many happy, shouting, hopping, jumping kids stood waiting for his honor to cut
a satin ribbon in front of sarah young's rainbow arch, that grown folks had to
wait, four blocks back. as gadsby was roaming around with lucy, to find if
things should start moving, old pat ryan, from branton hills' railway station,
was hunting for him; finally locating him in a lunch room, and rushing in
with:

"say! that big hop-skip-and-jump artist is down in my trunk room! i got a
punch on my jaw, a crack on my snout, and a kick on my shins a-tryin' to calm
him down !"

"a kick and a punch? what actions !" said gadsby. "i don't know of any hop-
skip-and-jump artist. how big a man is it?"

"worra, worra! it ain't no man at all, at all ! it's that thing what grows in
australia, and--"

but lucy saw light right off; and "laughing fit to kill," said

"oh, ho, ho!! i know! it's that boxing kangaroo you bought from barnum's
circus !" and a charming girl was doubling up in a wild storm of giggling,
ignoring old pat's scowls.

"ah ! that's him, all right," said gadsby. "so, pat, just put him in a burlap
bag and ship him to this zoo.

"who? i put him in a burlap bag? say, boss! if i can pick up about six husky
guys around that station; and if i can find a canvas, not a burlap, bag; and
put on a gas mask, a stomach pad, two shin-guards, and--"

but that crowd at sarah's arch was shouting for gadsby to cut that ribbon so
old pat had to bag that australian tornado; and in a way that would not hurt
him; for kangaroo actors cost good cash, you know.

so that crowd of kids got in, at last! now zoo animals can think, just as
humans can; and it was amusing to watch a pair of boys staring at a pair of
orang-outangs; and a pair of orang-outangs staring back at a pair of boys;
both thinking, no doubt, what funny things it saw! and, occasionally, both
animal and boy won a point! now if you think that only young folks find any
fun in going to a zoo, you probably don't go to zoos much; for many a big,
rotund capitalist had to laugh at simian antics, though, probably figuring up
just how much satisfaction his cash contribution brought him. many a family
woman forgot such things as a finicky child or burning biscuits. all was
happy-go-lucky joy; and, at two o'clock, as branton hills' municipal band, (a
part of gadsby's organization of youth's work, you know) struck up a bright
march, not a glum physiognomy was found in all that big park.

gadsby and lucy had much curiosity in watching what such crashing music would
do to various animals. at first a spirit akin to worry had baboons, gorillas,
and such, staring about, as still as so many posts; until, finding that no
harm was coming from such sounds, soon took to climbing and swinging again.
stags, yaks and llamas did a bit of high-kicking at first; gadsby figuring
that drums, and not actual music, did it. but a lilting waltzing aria did not
worry any part of this big zoo family; in fact, a fox, wolf and jackal, in a
quandary at first actually lay down, as though music truly "hath charms to
calm a wild bosom."

at gadsby's big aquarium visitors found not only fun, but opportunity for
studying many a kind of fish not ordinarily found in frying pans; and, though
in many lands, snails form a popular food, lucy, sarah and virginia put on
furious scowls at a group of boys who thought "snails might go good, with a
nut-pick handy." (but boys always will say things to horrify girls, you
know.) and upon coming to that big glass building, with its boa
constrictors, alligators, lizards and so on, a boy grinningly "got a girl's
goat" by wanting to kiss a fifty-foot anaconda; causing lucy to say,
haughtily, that "no boy, wanting to kiss such horrid, wriggly things can kiss
us branton hills girls." (good for you, lucy! i'd pass up a sixty-foot
anaconda, any day, for you.)

in following months many a school class was shown through our zoo's
fascinating paths, as instructors told of this or that animal's habits and
natural haunts; and showing that it was as worthy of sympathy, if ill, as any
human. and not only did such pupils obtain kindly thoughts for zoo animals,
but cats, dogs and all kinds of farm stock soon found that things had an
uncommon look, through a dropping off in scoldings and whippings, and rapidly
improving living conditions. but most important of all was word from an ugly,
hard-looking woman, who, watching, with an apologizing sniff, a flock of happy
birds, said:-

"i'm sorry that i always slap and bawl out my kids so much, for i know, now,
that kids or animals won't do as you wish if you snap and growl too much. and
i trust that mayor gadsby knows what a lot of good all his public works do for
us."

now this is a most satisfactory and important thing to think about, for
brutality will not,--cannot,--accomplish what a kindly disposition will;
and, if folks could only know how quickly a "balky" child will, through loving
and cuddling, grow into a charming, happy youth, much childish gloom and
sorrow would vanish; for a man or woman who is ugly to a child is too low to
rank as highly as a wild animal; for no animal will stand, for an instant,
anything approaching an attack, or any form of harm to its young. but what a
lot of tots find slaps, yanks and hard words for conditions which do not call
for such harsh tactics! no child is naturally ugly or "cranky." and big,
gulping sobs, or sad, unhappy young minds, in a tiny body should not occur
in any community of civilization. adulthood holds many an opportunity for such
conditions. childhood should not.

now just a word about zoos. many folks think that animals in a zoo know no
comforts; nothing but constant fright from living in captivity. such folks do
not stop to think of a thing or two about an animal's wild condition. wild
animals must not only constantly hunt for food, but invariably fight to kill
it and to hold it, too; for, in such a fight, a big antagonist will
naturally win from a small individual. thus, what food is found, is also lost;
and hunting must go on, day by day, or night by night until a tragic climax--
by thirst or starvation. but in a zoo, food is brought daily, with facility
for drinking, and laid right in front of hoofs, paws or bills. for small
animals, roofs and thick walls ward off cold winds and rain; and so, days of
calm inactivity, daily naps without worrying about attack; and a carting away
of all rubbish and filth soon puts a zoo animal in bodily form which has no
comparison with its wild condition. lack of room in which to climb, roam or
play, may bring a zoo animal to that condition known as "soft"; but, as it
now has no call for vigor, and its fighting passions find no opportunity for
display, such an animal is gradually approaching that condition which has
brought man, who is only an animal, anyway, to his lofty point in natural
history, today. truly, with such tribulations, worry, and hard work as man
puts up with to obtain his food and lodging, a zoo animal, if it could only
know of our daily grind, would comfortably yawn, thankful that man is so
kindly looking out for it. with similar animals all around it, and, day by
day, just a happy growth from cub-hood to maturity, i almost wish that i was a
zoo animal, with no boss to growl about my not showing up, mornings, at a
customary hour!

now, as our organization of youth is rapidly growing up, a
young crowd, too young to join it at first, is coming up; imbibing its "why-
not-do-it-now ?" spirit. so, as gadsby stood in front of that big municipal
auditorium (which that group, you know, had had built), marian hopkins, a
small girl, in passing by, saw him, and said

"i think branton hills ought to buy a balloon.''

"balloon? balloon? what would this city do with a balloon? put a string on it
so you could run around with it ?"

"no, not that kind of a balloon, but that big, zooming kind that sails way up
high, with a man in it."

"oh! ha, ha! you think an aircraft is a balloon! but what would--aha! an
airport ?"

"uh-huh ; but i didn't know how to say it."

"it' cracky!" said his honor. "i thought this town was about through
improving. but an airport would add a bit to it; now wouldn't it ?"

marian had a most profound opinion that it would; (if profound opinions grow
in such small kids!) so both took a walk to city hall to hunt up a councilman
or two. finding four in a council room, gadsby said

"youth, or, i should say, childhood, has just shown that branton hills is shy
on a most important acquisition," and old bill simpkins just had to blurt
out: "and, naturally, it calls for cash! cash!

cash! cash!! what will this town amount to if it blows in dollars so fast ?"

"and," said gadsby, "what will it amount to, if it don't ?"

that put a gag on old bill. councilman banks, though, was curious to know
about marian's proposition, saying: "it is probably a plan for buying
christmas toys for all branton hills kids."

but tiny marian, with a vigorous stamp of a tiny foot, swung right back
with: "no, sir!! santa claus will bring us our gifts! but i thought of
having a--what did you call it, mayor gadsby?"

"this child thinks branton hills should build an airport, and i think so, too.
if our inhabitants, such as this tot, can think up such things, all adults
should pack up, and vanish from municipal affairs. all right, marian; our city
council, your city council, my young patriot, will look into this airport
plan for you."

so, as on similar occasions months ago, word that land was again cropping up
in gadsby's mind, brought out a flood of landlords with vacant lots, all
looking forward to disposing of a dump worth two dollars and a half, for fifty
thousand. now an airport must occupy a vast lot of land, so cannot stand right
in a city's shopping district; but finally a big tract was bought, and right
in back of tiny marian's back yard! instantly, city hall was full of
applicants for flying branton hills' first aircraft. to gadsby's joy, amongst
that bunch was harold thompson, an old organization lad, who was known around
town as a chap who could do about anything calling for brains. as an airport
is not laid out in a day, harold got busy with paid aviators and soon was
piloting a craft without aid; and not only branton hills folks, but old
aviators, saw in harold, a "bird-man" of no small ability. and so tiny
marian's "vision" was a fact; just as "big girl" lucy's zoo; and, as with all
big city affairs, an inauguration should start it off. now, on all such
affairs you always find a "visitor of honor"; and on this grand day gadsby
couldn't think of anybody for that important post but marian. and, as it would
occur in august, any day would do, as that is a school vacation month.

and what a mob stood, or sat, on that big airport, waiting for a signal from
young marian which would start harold aloft, on branton hills' initial flight!
almost all brought a lunch and camp-stools or folding chairs; and, as it was a
hot day, thousands of gay parasols, and an array of bright clothing on our
school-girls, had that big lot looking as brilliant as a florist's window at
christmas.

our young visitor of honor was all agog with joy; and, i think, possibly a
touch of vanity; for what child wouldn't thrill with thousands watching? but
though marian had always had good clothing, coming from a family who could
afford it, no tot, in all history, had so glorious an outfit as that which
about all branton hills' population saw on that platform, amidst flags,
bunting and our big municipal band. as an airship is a simulation of a bird;
and as a bird, to a child, is not far from a fairy, marian had gaudy fairy
wings, a radiant cloak of gold, a sparkling gown all aglow with twinkling
stars, and a long glass wand, with a star at its top. as soon as all was in
condition gadsby told marian to stand up. this brought that vast crowd up,
also; and gadsby said:-

"now hold your wand way up high, and swing it, to signal harold to start."

up shot a tiny arm; and harold, watching from his cockpit, sang out:-

"contact!!"

a vigorous twist of his ship's gigantic "fan", a shout, a roar, a whizz, a
mighty cloud of dust, and amid a tornado of clapping, shouts, and band music,
branton hills was put on aviation's map. way, way up, so far as to look as
small as a toy, harold put on a show of banking, rolling and diving, which
told gadsby that, still again, had branton hills found profit in what its
organization of youth, and, now, its small kids, had to say about improving
a town.

during that box-lunch picnic, many of our "big girls" brought so much food to
marian that dad and ma had to stand guard against tummy pains. and what a
glorious, jolly occasion that picnic was! gay band music, songs, dancing,
oratory; and a grand all-round "howdy" amongst old inhabitants and arriving
tourists soon was transforming that big crowd into a happy group, such as it
is hard to find, today, in any big city: cold, distant, and with no thought by
its politicians for anybody in it; and gadsby found, around that big airport,
many a man, woman and child who was as proud of him as was his own family.

i

think that now you should know this charming gadsby family; so i will bring
forth lady gadsby, about whom i told you at gadsby's inauguration as mayor; a
loyal church woman with a vocal ability for choir work; and, with good
capability on piano or organ, no woman could "fill in" in so many ways; and no
woman was so willing, and quick to do so. gadsby had two sons; bright lads and
popular with all. julius was of a studious turn of mind, always poring through
books of information; caring not what kind of information it was, so long as
it was information, and not fiction. gadsby had thought of his growing up as a
school instructor, for no work is so worthy as imparting what you know to any
who long to study. but william! oh, hum!! our mayor and lady gadsby didn't
know just what to do with him; for all his thoughts clung around girls and
fashions in clothing: probably our high school didn't contain a girl who
didn't think that, at no distant day, bill gadsby would turn, from a callow
youth, into a "big catch" husband; for a mayor's son in so important a city as
ours was a mark for any girl to shoot at. but bill was not of a marrying
disposition; loving girls just as girls, but holding out no hand to any in
particular. always in first class togs, without missing a solitary fad which a
young man should adopt, gadsby's bill was a lion, in his own right, with no
girl in sight who had that tact through which a lasso could land around his
manly throat. gadsby had many a laugh, looking back at his own boyhood days,
his various flirtations, and such wild, throbbing palpitations as a boy's
flirtations can instill; and looking back through just such ogling groups as
now sought his offspring; until a girl, oh, so long ago, had put a stop to
all such flirtations, and got that lasso on "with a strangling hold," as
gadsby says; and it is still on, today! but this family was not all boys. oh,
my, no! two girls also sat around that family board. first, following william,
was nancy, who, as gadsby laughingly said, "didn't know how to grow;" and now,
in high school, was "about as big as a pint of milk;" and of such outstanding
charm that gadsby continually got solicitations to allow photographing for
soft-drink and similar billboard displays.

"no, sir!! not for any sort of pay!! in allowing public distribution of a
girl's photo you don't know into what situations said photos will land. i
find, daily, photographs of girls blowing about vacant lots, all soggy from
rains; also in a ditch, with its customary filth; or stuck up on a brick wall
or drawn onto an imaginary body showing a brand of tights or pajamas. no,**
**sir!! not for my girl!!"

fourth in this popular family was kathlyn, of what is known as a "classical
mold ;" with a brain which, at no distant day, will rank high in biology and
microscopy; for kathlyn was of that sort which finds fascination in studying
out many whats and whys amongst that vast array of facts about our origin.
this study, which too many young folks avoid as not having practical worth had
a strong hold on kathlyn, who could not sanction such frivolous occupations as
cards, dancing, or plain school gossip. not for an instant! kathlyn thought
that such folks had no thoughts for anything but transitory thrills. but in
biology!! ah!! why not study it, and find out how a tiny, microscopic drop of
protoplasm, can, through unknown laws grow into living organisms, which can
not only go on living, but can also bring forth offspring of its kind? and not
only that. as said offspring must combat various kinds of surroundings and try
various foods, why not watch odd variations occur, and follow along, until you
find an animal, bird, plant or bug of such a total dissimilarity as to form
practically, a class actually apart from its original form? kathlyn did just
that; and gadsby was proud of it; and, i think, just a bit curious on his own
part as to occasional illustrations in this studious young lady's school
books!

now it is known by all such natural "faddists" that any such a study has
points in common with a branch akin to it; and kathlyn was not long in finding
out that biology, with its facts of animal origin, could apply to a practical
control of bugs on farms. (this word, "bugs," is hardly biological; but as
kathlyn is in this story, with its strict orthographical taboo, "bugs" must
unavoidably supplant any classical nomination for such things.)

so, mayor gadsby sought branton hills' council's approval for a goodly sum;
not only for such control, but also for study as to how to plant, in ordinary
soil, and not risk losing half a crop from worms, slugs and our awkwardly-
brought-in "bugs." this appropriation was a sort of prod, showing this council
that publicity of any first-class kind was good for a city; and was casting
about for anything which would so act, until gadsby's son, bill, (who, you
know, thought of nothing but girls and "dolling up,") found that branton hills
had no distinction of its own in outfits for man or woman, so why not put up a
goal of, say fifty dollars, for anybody who could think up any worthy "stunt"
in clothing; which should go out as "branton hills' this" or "branton hills'
that." possibly just a form of hat-brim, a cut of coat-front, or a sporting
outfit. and our worthy council did put up that goal, and many brought all
sorts of plans to city hall. and bill won, by thinking up a girls' (always
girls, with bill!) hiking outfit, consisting of a skirt with a rain-proof
lining, which could, during a storm, form a rain-suit by putting it on, as
bill said, "by substituting outwards for inwards." (this will hit bill
amusingly, as days go by!) going with it was a shirt with a similar "turn--
out" facility, and a hiking boot with high tops as guards against thorns and
burs; but which, by undoing a clasp, would slip off; and, lo!! you had a low-
cut oxford for ordinary occasions! in about a month a big cotton mill had work
going full blast on "branton hills' turn-it-out sport and hiking outfit," and
a small boot-shop got out a pair of bill's "two-part boots," though saying
that it would "probably fall apart without warning!" but kathlyn put on a pair
and found it most satisfactory for a long, rough hill-climb, hunting for bird
and animal forms for biological study. this proof of branton hills' goods was
soon known in surrounding towns, and that critical boot-shop and big cotton
mill had hard work to fill calls from canada, holland, russia, spain and
australia! and bill was put upon branton hills' roll of honor.

now i'll drop civic affairs for a bit, and go on to a most
natural act in this city of many young chaps and charming young girls which
was slowly working up all through this history, as mayor gadsby had occasion
to find out, sitting comfortably on his porch on a hot, sultry august night.
amidst blossoming shrubs, a dim form slowly trod up his winding pathway. it
was a young man, plainly trying to act calmly, but couldn't. it was frank
morgan, our radio broadcasting "boss", you know, who, for many a month, had
shown what a romantic public calls "a crush" for gadsby's young nancy.

so a jolly call of :"what's on your mind, boy?" rang out, as frank sank
willingly into a hammock, wiping his brow of what i actually know was not
natural humidity from an august night! now gadsby, who was, as i said, a gay
lothario in his own youth, saw right off what was coming, and sat back,
waiting. finally, finishing a bad attack of coughing, (though frank hadn't any
cold!), that young man said: "i,--that is, nancy and i,--or, i will say that
i want to,--that is,--i think nancy and i would--" and gadsby took pity on
him, right off.

nancy had always had a strong liking for frank. both had grown up in branton
hills from babyhood; and gadsby thought back about that lassoo which had
brought him lady gadsby. now asking a girl's dad for that young lady's hand is
no snap for any young swain; and gadsby was just that kind of a dad who would
smooth out any bumps or rough spots in such a young swains path. nancy wasn't
a child, now, but a grown-up young woman: so gadsby said: "frank, lady
gadsby and i know all about how much you think of nancy; and what nancy thinks
of you. so, if you want to marry, our full wish is for a long and happy union.
nancy is out in that arbor, down this back path; and i'll watch that nobody
disturbs you two for an hour."

at this grand turn of affairs, frank could only gasp :Â•Â•oh--h--h!!Â• and a
shadowy form shot down that dusky path ; and from that moonlit arbor, anybody
knowing how a man chirps to a canary bird, would know that two young birds put
a binding approval upon what his honor had just said!!

many a man has known that startling instant in which dan cupid, that busy
young rascal, took things in hand, and told him that his baby girl was not a
baby girl now, and was about to fly away from him. it is both a happy and a
sad thrill that shoots through a man at such an instant. happy and joyous at
his girl's arrival at maturity; sad, as it brings to mind that awkward fact
that his own youth is now but a myth; and that his scalp is showing vacant
spots. his baby girl in a bridal gown! his baby girl a matron! his baby girl
proudly placing a grandchild in his lap!! it's an impossibility!! but this
big world is full of this kind of impossibility, and will stay so as long as
man lasts.

so nancy, tiny, happy, laughing nancy, was "found" through a conspiracy by dan
cupid and frank morgan; and right in all glory of youth. youth!! ah, what a
word!! and how transitory! but, how grand! as long as it lasts. how many
millions in gold would pour out for an ability to call it all back, as with
our musical myth, faust. during that magic part of a child's growth this world
is just a gigantic inquiry box, containing many a topic for which a solution
is paramount to a growing mind. and to whom can a child look, but us adults?
any man who "can't stop now" to talk with a child upon a topic which, to him
is "too silly for anything," should look back to that day upon which that
topic was dark and dubious in his own brain. a child who asks nothing will
know nothing. that is why that "bump of inquiry" was put on top of our skulls.

but to go back to nancy. it was in august that frank had
stumblingly told gadsby of his troth; and so, along in april, branton hills
was told that a grand church ritual would occur in may. may, with its
blossoms, birds and balmy air! an idyllic month for matrimony. i wish that i
could call this grand church affair by its common, customary nomination; but
that word can't possibly crowd into this story. it must pass simply as a
church ritual.

all right; so far, so good. so, along into april all branton hills was agog,
awaiting information as to that actual day; or, i should say, night.

gadsby's old organization of youth was still as loyal to all in it as it was,
way back in days of its formation; days of almost constantly running around
town, soliciting funds for many a good municipal activity. finally this group
got cards announcing that on may fourth, branton hills' first church would
admit all who might wish to aid in starting nancy and frank upon that
glamorous path to matrimonial bliss.

may fourth was punctual in arriving; though many a young girl got into that
flighty condition in which a month drags along as though in irons, and clock-
hands look as if stuck fast. but to many girls, also, may fourth was not any
too far away; for charming gowns and dainty hats do not grow upon shrubs, you
know; and girls who work all day must hurry at night, at manipulating a
thousand or so things which go towards adorning our girls of today.

now, an approach to a young girl's "big day" is not always as that girl might
wish. small things bob up, which, at first, look actually disastrous for a
joyous occasion; and for nancy and frank, just such a thing did bob up; for,
on may third, a pouring rain and whistling wind put branton hills' spirits
way, way down into a sorrowful slump. black, ugly, rumbling clouds hung
aggravatingly about in a saturation of mist, rain and fog; and roads and lawns
got such a washing that nancy said: "anyway, if i can't walk across that
front church yard, i can swim it!!"

that was nancy; a small bunch of inborn good humor; and i'll say, right now,
that it took good humor, and lots of it, to look upon conditions out of your
control, with such outstanding pluck!

but young dan cupid was still around, and got in touch with that tyrannical
mythological god who controls storms; and put forth such a convincing account
of all nancy's good points, (and frank's too, if anybody should ask you) that
a command rang out across a stormy sky: "calling all clouds!! calling all
clouds!!

all rain to stop at midnight of may third! bright sun on may fourth, and no
wind!

so, as nancy took an anxious squint out of doors at about six o'clock on that
important morning, (and what young girl could go on, calmly snoozing on such
a day?) lo!! old sol was smiling brightly down on branton hills; birds sang;
all sorts of blossoming things had had a good drink; and a most glorious
sky, rid of all ugly clouds, put our young lady into such a happy mood that
it took a lot of control to avoid just a tiny bit of humidity around a small
pair of rich, brown orbs which always had that vibrating, dancing light of
happy youth; that miraculous "joy of living."

and, what a circus was soon going full tilt in mayor gadsby's mansion! if
that happy man so much as said:-

"now, i--" a grand, womanly chorus told him that "a man don't know anything
about such affairs;" and that a most satisfactory spot for him was in a
hammock on his porch, with a good cigar! that's it! a man is nominally monarch
in his own family; but only so on that outstanding day upon which a bridal
gown is laid out in all its glory on his parlor sofa, and a small mob of
girls, and occasionally a woman or two, is rushing in and out, up and down
stairs, and finding as much to do as a commonly known microscopic "bug" of
prodigious hopping ability finds at a dog show. rush! rush! rush! a thousand
thoughts and a million words, (this crowd was all girls, you know!) making
that parlor as noisy as a saw mill! but gadsby laughingly staid out of it all,
watching big armfuls of bloom and many a curious looking box go in through
that front door; flying hands rapidly untying glorious ribbon wrappings.

now, upon all such occasions you will find, if you snoop around in dining room
or pantry, an astonishing loaf of culinary art, all fancy frosting, and chuck
full of raisins and citron, which is always cut upon such an auspicious
occasion; and it is as hard to avoid naming it, in this story, as it is to
withstand its assault upon your stomach.

oh hum! now what? aha! may fourth, lasting, as nancy said, "for about a
million months," finally got gadsby's dining room clock around to six-fifty;
only about an hour, now, to that grand march past practically half of branton
hills' population; for all who couldn't jam into that commodious church would
stand around in a solid phalanx, blocking all traffic in that part of town;
for all branton hills was fond of its mayor's "baby girl."

but, during this rush and hubbub, how about frank? poor boy! now, if you think
that a young lad at such an instant is as calm as a millpond, you don't know
romantic youth, that's all. about forty of gadsby's old organization boys, now
many young chaps, had bought him a car, which nancy was not to know anything
about until that throwing of old boots, and what is also customary, had quit.
frank didn't want to hold it back from nancy, but what can a chap do, against
forty? also, last night, at a big "so sorry, old chap" party, frank had found
how loyal a bunch of old pals can turn out; and this "grand launching into
matrimonial doubt" had put him in a happy mood for that all important oration
of two words :

"i do."

so now i'll hurry around to church to find out how nancy's organization girls
put in a long day of hard labor; not only at floor work, but up on stools and
chairs. my! my! just look and gasp!! a long chain of lilacs runs from door
to altar in two rows. and look at that big arch of wistaria and narcissus
half way along! artificial palms stand in curving ranks from organ to walls;
and, with all lights softly glowing through pink silk hoods; and with gilt
cords outlining an altar-dais of moss and sprays of asparagus, it is a sight
to bring a thrill to anybody, young or old.

and, now -- aha!! with organist and pastor waiting, a murmur and hand-
clapping from that big front door told all who had luckily got in that nancy
was coming! it took thirty cars to bring that bridal party to church; for not
a boy or girl of our old organization would miss this occasion for a farm,
with a pig on it with four kinks in its tail. now, naturally, any girl would
long to walk up that holy path with nancy, but too many would spoil things;
so, by drawing lots, nancy had for company, sarah young, lucy donaldson,
priscilla standish, virginia adams, doris johnson and cora grant; with kathlyn
as maid of honor, as charming an array of youthful glory as you could find in
all branton hills.

until this important arrival, branton hills' famous organist, just plain john
smith, was playing softly, - "just a song at twilight," watching for a signal
from mayor gadsby; and soon swung into that famous march which brought forth a
grand thrill, as tiny, blushing, palpitating nancy took "dad's" arm, gazing
with shining orbs at that distant--oh, so distant--altar.

now i want to know why anybody should want to cry on such a grand occasion.
what is sad about it? but many a lash was moist as that tiny vision of
glamorous purity slowly trod that fragrant pathway. possibly girls can't avoid
it; anyway, our branton hills girls didn't try to do so.

gadsby, as has many a good old dad, fought back any such showing; but i won't
say that his thoughts didn't nag him; for, giving away your baby girl to any
young, though first-class chap, is not actually fun. but that long, long
trail finally brought him to that mossy dais, at which frank, coming in
through a handy door, stood waiting. nancy was as calm as a wax doll; but
frank stood shaking with a most annoying cough (of imaginary origin!) as
pastor brown stood, book in hand. now i won't go through with all that was
said; nor say anything about nancy's tiny, warm, soft hand as it was put in
frank's big clumsy fist by pastor brown. nor about that first holy kiss; nor
that long, mighty roar of organ music, as our happy, blushing pair trod that
long pathway, door-wards. you know all about it, anyway, as most such rituals
follow a standard custom. nor shall i go into that happy hour at his honor's
mansion, during which that fancy loaf of frosting, raisins and citron was cut;
(and which many a girl put in a pillow that night!); nor of that big bridal
bunch of blossoms, which was thrown from a stairway into a happy group of
hopping, jumping, laughing girls. (but i will say,--shhhh! that kathlyn caught
it!); nor anything of nancy and frank's thrilling trip to branton hills' big
railway station, in that gift car which nancy thought was a king's chariot;
nor of a grand, low bow by old pat ryan of that station's trunk room. it was
just that customary "all aboard!!" a crowd's "hooray!!" and "good luck!!",
with branton hills' municipal band a-blaring, and a mighty mob shouting and
waving.

oh, hum! i'll turn from this happy affair now and try to
find out what was going on in this thriving, hustling city. now you probably
think of a city as a gigantic thing; for, if you go up onto a high hill, and
look around across that vast array of buildings, parks, roads and distant
suburbs, you not only think that it is a gigantic thing, you know it is.
but, is it?

just stop and think a bit. all such things as bulk, or width, you know by
comparison only; comparison with familiar things. so, just for fun, go up in
an imaginary balloon, about half way to that old moon, which has hung aloft
from your birth--(and possibly a day or two in addition)-- and look down upon
your "gigantic" city. how will it look? it is a small patch of various colors;
but you know that, within that tiny patch, many thousands of your kind hurry
back and forth; railway trains crawl out to far-away districts; and, if you
can pick out a grain of dust that stands out dimly in a glow of sunlight, you
may know that it is your mansion, your cabin or your hut, according to your
financial status. now, if that hardly shows up, how about you? what kind of
a dot would you form in comparison? you must admit that your past thoughts
as to your own pomposity will shrink just a bit! all this shows us that could
this big world think, it wouldn't know that such a thing as man was on it. and
man thinks that his part in all this unthinkably vast cosmos is important!
why, you poor shrimp! if this old world wants to twitch just a bit and knock
down a city or two, or split up a group of mountains, man, with all his brain
capacity, can only clash wildly about, dodging falling bricks. no. you
wouldn't show up from that balloon as plainly as an ant, in crawling around
our capitol building at washington.

but why all this talk about our own inconspicuosity? it is simply brought up
to accompany nancy's thoughts as that train shot across country; for nancy,
until now, had not known anything approaching such a trip. so this happy,
happy trip, back upon which many a woman looks, with a romantic thrill, was
astounding to such a girl. from branton hills to san francisco; a boat to
honolulu, manila, shanghai, hong kong, colombo, and finally cairo. ah !
cairo!! in thinking of it you naturally bring up two words --"pyramids" and
"sphinx", words familiar from school days. practically from birth, nancy,
along with millions of folks, had known that famous illustration of a thing
half lion and half woman; and a mountainous mass of masonry, built for a
king's tomb. so, standing right in front of both, nancy and frank got that
wondrous thrill coming from attaining a long, long wish. from cairo to italy,
spain, london, paris, and that grand atlantic sail, landing at boston, and
hustling by fast train (but how slow it did go!!) to branton hills! so,
along about thanksgiving day, about half of its population was again at its
big railway station, for nancy was coming back. (and frank, too, if anybody
should ask you.)

and with that big municipal band a-booming and blaring, and a crowd of our old
organization girls pushing forward, did branton hills look good to nancy? and
did nancy look good to branton hills what a glorious tan, from days and days
on shipboard! and was that old atlantic ugly? ask frank, poor chap, who, as on
that big pacific, had found out just what a ship's rail is for! and that
stomachs can turn most amazing flip-flops if an old boat is too frisky!

in just an instant, actual count, nancy was in lady gadsby's arms , fighting
valiantly to hold back a flood of big, happy sobs; and frank was busy,
grabbing a cloud of hands surging towards him.

coming back from a long trip is a happy occasion. and it is also mighty good
to put a trunk or a bag down, knowing that it will "stay put" for a day or
two, anyway. that constant packing and unpacking on a long trip, soon turns
into an automatic function; and how nancy did worry about what transportation
customs in various lands would do to a first class trunk which has a romantic
history, owing to its coming as a matrimonial gift from a group of loving
girls. but now; ah! put it away, and your things around, in familiar disposal.

long trips do bring lots of fun and information; but a truly long trip is
tiring, both in body and mind.

but nancy and frank won't stay with gadsby long; for, during that trip, a
charming bungalow was built on a lot of gadsby's, facing city park; and nancy
put in many days arranging things in it. anybody who has had such joyful work
to do, knows how assiduously a young pair would go about it; for two young
robins carrying bits of cotton and string up to a criss-cross of twigs in a
big oak, with constant soft, loving chirps, "had nothing," according to our
popular slang, on nancy and frank.

finally "moving in day" got around, with that customary party, to which you
carry a gift to add to such things as a young husband on only a small salary
can install. and how gifts did pour in!! rugs, chairs, small stands, urns,
clocks, photos in wall mountings, dainty scarfs (all hand-work by our girls in
our night school), books, lamps, a "radio" from station kbh, until, finally, a
big truck found an opportunity in that coming and going throng to back in and
unload an upright piano, all satin ribbon wrappings, with a card "from branton
hills' municipal band."

icould go on for hours about this starting out of nancy and
frank, but many civic affairs await us; for julius gadsby, who has not got
into this story up to now, had, from his constant poring through all kinds of
books of information, built up a thorough insight into fossils; and you know
that kathlyn is way up in biology; which brings in our awkward "bugs" again.
now bugs will burrow in soil, and always did, from history's birth; building
catacombs which at last vanish through a piling up of rocks, sand or soil on
that spot. now julius continually ran across accounts of important "finds" of
such fossils, and with kathlyn's aid was soon inaugurating popular clamor for
a big hall of natural history.

this, julius and kathlyn thought, would turn out as popular, in a way, as
living animals out at our zoo. but an appropriation for a hall of natural
history is a hard thing to jam through a city council; for though its
occupants call for no food, you can't maintain such a building without human
custody; "which," said old bill simpkins. "is but a tricky way of saying
cash!" but our council was by now so familiar with calls from that famous
"organization", and, owing to its inborn faith in that grand body of hustling
youth, such a building was built; julius and kathlyn arranging all displays of
fossil birds, plants, "bugs," footprints, raindrop marks, worms, skulls, parts
of jaws, and so on. and what a crowd was on hand for that first public day!
julius and kathlyn took visitors through various rooms, giving much data upon
what was shown; and many a branton hills inhabitant found out a lot of facts
about our vast past; about organisms living so far back in oblivion as to balk
man's brain to grasp. kathlyn stood amongst groups of botanical
fossilizations, with gadsby not far away, as this studious young woman told
school pupils how our common plants of today through various transitions in
form, show a kinship with what now lay, in miraculously good condition, in
this big hall; and julius told staring groups how this or that fossil did
actually link such animals as our cow or walrus of today with original forms
totally apart, both in looks and habits. and it was comforting to gadsby to
find pupils asking how long ago this was, and noting that amazing look as
julius had to say that nobody knows.

such a building is an addition to any city; for this big world is so old that
human calculation cannot fathom it; and it will, in all probability, go on
always. so it is improving a child's mind to visit such displays; for it will
start a train of thoughts along a path not commonly sought if such
institutions do not stand as attractions. now, in any community a crank will
bob up, who will, with loud acclaim and high-sounding words, avow that it "is
a scandalous drain on public funds to put up such a building just to show a
lot of rocks, animals' ribs and birds' skulls." but such loud bombasts only
show up an "orator's" brain capacity (or lack of it), and actually bring
studious folks to ask for just such data upon things which his ridiculing had
run down. it is an old, old story, that if you want a city's population to go
in strongly for anything, and you start a loud, bawling campaign against it,
that public will turn to it for information as to its worth. so, just such a
loud, bawling moron had to drift into our hall on its inauguration day, and
soon ran smack up against kathlyn! that worthy girl, allowing him to "blow
off" a bit, finally said: "i know you. you run a stock farm. all right. you
want to know all you can about matching and crossing your stock, don't you? i
thought so. but god did all that, long, oh, so long ago; gradually producing
such animals as you own today; and all you can do is to follow along, in your
puny way, and try to avoid a poor quality of stock mixing with yours. this
building contains thousands of god's first works. it won't do you a bit of
harm to look through our rooms. nothing will jump out at you!"

at that that barking critic shut up! and gadsby slid outdoors, chuckling:
"that's my girl talking!! that's my kathlyn!!

it is curious why anybody should pooh-pooh a study of fossils or various forms
of rocks or lava. such things grant us our only vision into natural history's
big book; and it isn't a book in first-class condition. far from it! just a
tiny scrap; a slip; or, possibly a big chunk is found, with nothing notifying
us as to how it got to that particular point, nor how long ago. man can only
look at it, lift it, rap it, cut into it, and squint at it through a
magnifying glass. and,-- think about it. that's all; until a formal study
brings accompanying thoughts from many minds; and, by such tactics, judging
that in all probability such and such a rock or fossil footprint is about so
old. natural history holds you in its grasp through just this impossibility of
finding actual facts; for it is thus causing you to think. now, thinking is
not only a voluntary function; it is an acquisition; an art. plants do not
think. animals probably do, but in a primary way, such as an aid in knowing
poisonous foods, and how to bring up an offspring with similar ability. but
man can, and should think, and think hard and constantly. it is ridiculous
to rush blindly into an action without looking forward to lay out a plan. such
an unthinking custom is almost a panic, and panic is but a mild form of
insanity.

so kathlyn and julius did a grand, good thing in having this hall as an
addition to branton hills' institutions.

now, in any city or town, or almost any small community, you will find a
building, or possibly only a room, about which said city or town has nothing
to say. it is that most important institution in which you put a stamp on your
mail and drop it into a slot, knowing that it will find its way across city or
country to that man or woman who is waiting for it.

but how many young folks know how this mail is put out so quickly. and with
such guaranty against loss? not many, i think, if you ask. so gadsby, holding
up youth as a nation's most important function in its coming history, thought
that any act which would instruct a child in any way, was worthy. so, on a
saturday morning his honor took a group of grammar school pupils to a balcony
in back of that all-hiding partition, and a postal official, showing all mail
handling acts individually, said: "in this country, two things stand first
in rank: your flag and your mail. you all know what honor you pay to your
flag, but you should know, also, that your mail, -- just that ordinary postal
card--is also important. but a postal card, or any form of mail, is not
important, in that way, until you drop it through a slot in this building,
and with a stamp on it, or into a mail box outdoors. up to that instant it is
but a common card, which anybody can pick up and carry off without committing
a criminal act. but as soon as it is in back of this partition, or in a mail
box, a magical transformation occurs; and anybody who now should willfully
purloin it, or obstruct its trip in any way, will find prison doors awaiting
him. what a frail thing ordinary mail is! a baby could rip it apart, but no
adult is so foolish as to do it. that small stamp which you stick on it, is,
you might say, a postal official, going right along with it, having it always
in his sight."

a giggling girl was curious to know if that was why a man's photo is on it.
"possibly," said our official, laughing. "but wait a bit. look downstairs. as
your mail falls in through that slot, or is brought in by a mailman, it is put
through an ink-daubing apparatus--that's it, right down in front of you--which
totally ruins its stamp. how about your man's photo, now?"

a good laugh rang around, and our official said: "now a man sorts it
according to its inscription, puts it into a canvas bag and aboard a train, or
possibly an aircraft. but that bag has mail going to points a long way apart,
so a man in a mail car sorts it out, so that chicago won't find mail in its
bag which should go to california."

at this point our giggling girl said:

"ooooo! i had a christmas card for missouri go way down to mississippi !"

how did you mark it?"

"i put m-i-s-s for missouri."

"try m-o, and i wish you luck."

as that laugh ran round, our official said: "now you know that you can buy a
long,

narrow stamp which will hurry your mail along. so, as all mail in this
building is put up in many a small bunch, all with such stamps attract a
mailman, who will so wrap a bunch that that kind of a stamp will show up
plainly. upon its arrival at a distant point, a boy will grab it, and hurry it
to its final goal. but that stamp will not hurry it as long as it is on that
train."

our giggling girl, swinging in again, said: "what? with that stamp right on
top ?"

"how can it?" said our official. "a train can only go just so fast, stamp or
no stamp."

"oh."

our boys and girls got a big thrill from this visit in back of that partition,
and told gadsby so. on coming out of that building our party saw a big
patrolman putting a small boy into a patrol wagon. that poor kid was but a
bunch of rags, dirty, and in a fighting mood. our boys got a big laugh out of
it. our girls, though, did not. young marian hopkins who had that fairy
wand, you know, at our airport inauguration, said:

"oh, that poor child! will that cop put him in jail, mayor gadsby?" at which
his honor instantly thought of a plan long in his mind. branton hills had a
court room, a child's court, in fact, at which a kindly man looks out for just
such young waifs \- trying to find out why such tots commit unlawful acts. so
gadsby said

"i don't know, marian, but i want you young folks to go on a visit, tonight,
to our night court, to find out about just such wild boys. how many want to
go?"

to his satisfaction, all did; and so, that night that court room had rows of
young folks, all agog with curiosity which a first visit to a court stirs up
in a child. just by luck, our young vagrant in rags was brought in first,
shaking with childish doubt as to what was going to occur. but that kindly man
sitting back of that big mahogany railing had no thought of scaring a child,
and said, calmly: "now, boy, what did you do that you ought not to do; and
why did you do it?"

as our boys sat nudging and winking, but with our girls growing sad from
sympathy, our young culprit said

"aw! i grabs a bun, and dis big cop grabs my collar !"

"but why did you grab that bun? it wasn't yours, you know."

"gosh, man!! i was hungry!!"

"hungry? don't your folks look out for you?"

"naw; i do my own looking. and that's what i was doing, too !"

"what had you for food all day?"

"just that bun. and say!! i only got half of it! that big cop was so rough
!"

"did that cop, as you call him, hurt you

"hurt!! i should say not!! i put up a good stiff scrap! i paid him back,
blow for blow! no big gas-bag of a cop is going to wallop this kid and not
pay for it !"

"but, boy, don't your folks bring you up to know that it is wrong to rob
anybody?"

"naw! my dad robs folks, and just got six months for it. so why shouldn't i?
it's all right to do what your dad will do, isn't it?"

"not always, boy," and our girls in row two and our boys in row four sat sad
and glum at this portrayal of youthful sin. finally that big kindly man,
thoughtfully rubbing his chin, said:-

"whom did your dad rob?"

"i dunno. it was a ford car. nobody wasn't in it, so why not grab it? that's
what dad said. you can pick up a bit of cash for a car, you know, boss. and
say, if a car brung only six months, how long will i squat in jail for swiping
this half bun? aw! go slow, boss! i ain't no bad kid! only just a hungry mutt.
gosh!! how i wish i had a glass of milk !"

from row two a young, vigorous girlish form shot out, dashing for a doorway;
and as that big kindly man was still rubbing his chin, marian burst in again,
rushing, sobbingly, to that sad bunch of rags, holding out a pint of milk and
two hot biscuits. a quick snatch by two horribly dirty young hands, a limp
flop on a mat at that big mahogany railing, and a truly hungry child was
oblivious to all around him. and i'll say that our boys, in row four, had
lumpy throats. but finally that big kindly man said: "though taking things
unlawfully is wrong, conditions can occur in which so young a culprit is not
at fault. this young chap has had no bringing up, but has run wild. a child
will not know right from wrong if not taught; and, as it is a primary animal
instinct to obtain food in any way, i will simply put this boy in a school
which branton hills maintains for just such youths."

at this both row two and row four burst out in such a storm of hand-clapping
that gadsby found that this visit had shown his young folks, from actual
contact with a child without training, how important child-raising is; and how
proud a city is of such as act according to law.

in almost any** **big town, around autumn, you will
annually run across that famous agricultural show known as a county fair; and,
as branton hills had a big park, which you know all about, right in front of
nancy's and frank's small bungalow, it was a most natural spot for holding it.
and so, as this happy pair's third autumn got around, stirring activity in
that big park also got a-going; for railings for stockyards don't grow all
built; yards and yards of brown canvas don't just blow into a park; nor do
"hot dog" and popcorn stands jump up from nothing. and nancy, rocking on that
bungalow porch, could watch all this work going on. and rocking was about all
that nancy could, or, i should say, should do, just now.

what a sight it was! trucks; small cars; wagons; a gang with a tractor plowing
up hard spots; a gang picking up rocks, grading bumpy spots, and laying out
ground plans. masons building walls, and all kinds of goods arriving, by tons.
but out of all that confusion and ado a canvas town will grow, strung from top
to bottom with gaily flapping flags and hanging bunting, and that customary
"mid-way" with its long rows of gaudy billboards, in front of which circus
ballyhoo artists will continuously bawl and shout out claims about sword-
swallowing, tattooing, hula-hula dancing, boa constrictor charming, or a punch
and judy show.

at a county fair two things stand out as most important: farm stock and that
oval track around which swiftly trotting colts will thrill thousands; and,
i'll say, shrink a bank account or two! but, of all sights, i don't know of
any with such drawing ability for kids as just such a carnival lot. so, daily,
as soon as school was out, throngs of happy, shouting, hopping, jumping boys
and girls would dash for that big park; looking, pointing, and climbing up on
auto tops, into lofty oaks, onto tall rocks, or a pal's back; for if anything
is difficult for a boy to obtain a sight of, nothing in climbing that an
orang-outang can do, will balk him!

so nancy sat calmly rocking, rocking, rocking, and, --but, pardon! i'll go on
with this story. all i know is that frank, arriving from work at radio station
kbh, wouldn't so much as look at that big carnival lot, but would rush in, in
a most loving, solicitous way which always brought a kiss and a blush from
nancy. now if i don't quit talking about this young pair you won't know
anything about that big show going up in front of that happy bungalow. almost
daily lady gadsby would drop in on nancy, bringing all sorts of dainty foods;
and his honor, with kathlyn, julius and bill, paid customary visits.

"but that fair !" you say. "how about that fair ?"

ah! it was a fair, i'll say! what mobs on that first day! and what a din!!
bands playing, ballyhoos shouting, popcorn a-popping, "hot dogs' a-sizzling,
ducks squawking, cows lowing, pigs grunting, an occasional baby squalling; and
amidst it all, a choking cloud of dust, a hot autumn wind, panting, fanning
matrons, cussing husbands; all working toward that big oval track at which all
had a flimsy possibility of winning a million or two (or a dollar or two!).
oh, you county fairs! you bloom in your canvas glory, annually. you draw vast
crowds; you show high quality farm stock, gigantic pumpkins, thousands of
poultry, including our "thanksgiving national bird". you fill coops with fancy
squabs, fat rabbits, and day-old chicks. you show many forms of incubators,
churns, farming apparatus, pumps, plows, lighting plants for small farms,
windmills, "bug" poisons, and poultry foods. and you always add a big balloon,
which you anchor, so that kids may soar aloft until a windlass pulls it down.
you fill us with food that would kill a wild goat, but you still last! and may
you always do so; for, within your flapping, bulging canvas walls, city man
rubs against town man, rich and poor girls bump, snobs attain no right of way,
and a proud, happy boy or girl shows a "first class" satin ribbon which a
lovingly brought-up calf or poultry brood has won.

only a satin ribbon, but, displaying it to a group of admiring young pals
brings to a child that natural thrill from accomplishing anything worthy of
public acclaim. such thrills will not crowd in as maturity supplants youth;
and so i say, "a trio of our customary huzzas" for any child who can carry
away a satin ribbon from a county fair.

but what about our good mayor during all this circus hullabaloo? did important
thoughts for still improving branton hills pass through his busy mind? not
just now; but fond, anxious thoughts did; for his mind was constantly on
nancy; tiny, darling nancy, his baby girl. for, during that noisy carnival,
folks saw (or thought so, you know), a big bird with long shanks and a
monstrous bill, circling round and round that small bungalow's roof, plainly
looking for a spot to land on. lady gadsby and old doctor wilkins saw it, too,
and told nancy that that big hospital which our old organization had built,
was holding a room for instant occupancy; and, as that big bird daily swung
down, down, down, almost grazing that small roof, frank, poor chap, as shaky
as at his church ritual, thirty months ago, staid away from radio station kbh,
and stuck to that small bungalow as a fly sticks around a sugar bowl.

finally, on a crisp autumn night, that soaring bird shot straight down with
such an assuring swoop, that old doc wilkins, indoors with nancy, saw it and
said, quickly:

"on your way, nancy girl!!" and that part of branton hills saw his car racing
hospital-wards, with lady gadsby fondly patting nancy's tiny, cold hands, and
saying just such loving things as a woman would, naturally, to a young girl on
such a trip. but gadsby and frank? ah! poor, half-crazy things! no car would
do at all! no, sir!! a car was far too slow! and so, across lots, down into
many a man's yard, and jumping high walls, shot two shadowy forms, arriving at
that big hospital, badly blown, just as lady gadsby and old doc wilkins took
nancy's arms, and got slowly to that big door with its waiting rolling chair.

now this stork's visit is nothing out of ordinary in world affairs. millions
and billions of visits has it, and its kind, flown--to king's mansion or a
black zulu woman's hut. but this flight was poor frank's initiation to that
awful hour of blank panic, during which a young husband is boiling hot or icy
cold in turn. god!! how still a hospital corridor is!! how doctors and
assistants do float past without as much sound as falling snow! oh ! how
long frank and his honor sat, stood, or trod up and down, watching that room
door!! what was going on? was nancy all right? oh!! why this prolonging of
agonizing inactivity? can't anybody- say anything? isn't anybody around, at
all? but hospital doctors and nursing staffs, though pitying a young chap,
must pass him up for that tiny lady, who now was but a tool in god's hands; in
god's magic laboratory. and so ah! doctor wilkins is coming--and smiling!!

"a baby girl--and with a ripping good pair of lungs !" but has to jump quick
to catch frank, who has sunk in a swoon. and mayor gadsby's collar is as limp
as a dish-rag!

ah! man, man, man! and woman, woman, woman! just you two! god's only parts in
his mighty plan for living actuality. not only with man and animals, but also
down ,--way, way down amongst plants. just two parts. only two!! and baby, you
tiny bunch of wriggling, gurgling humanity by that slowly ticking clock is
your turn in this mighty world, unavoidably arriving. mama, papa, and all of
us will go on, for a bit, growing old and gray, but you, now so young and
frail. will stand sturdily, and willingly, in our vacancy; and carry on god's
will!

as this is a history of a city i must not stay around any
part too long. so, as it was almost "a small morning hour," nina adams, a
widow, was sitting up; for virginia, a high school girl, was still out; and,
around two-thirty, was brought back in a fast car; two youths actually
dumping an unconscious form on nina's front porch, and dashing madly away.
but nina adams saw it; and, calling for aid in carrying virginia indoors, put
in a frantic call for old doc wilkins, an old, long-ago school pal, who found
nina frantic from not knowing virginia's condition, nor why that pair of
youths shot madly away without calling anybody. but it only took doctor
wilkins an instant to find out what was wrong; and nina, noting his tight lips
and growing scowl was in an agony of doubt.

"what is it, tom? quick!! i'm almost crazy! !"

dr. wilkins, standing by virginia's couch, said, slowly:-

"it's nothing to worry about, nina. virginia will pull through all right, by
morning."

but that didn't satisfy nina adams, not for an instant, and dr. wilkins,
knowing that ironclad spirit of school days which would stand for no
obstructions in its path, saw that a "blow-up" was coming; but, through a
kindly thought for this woman's comfort, did not say what his diagnosis was,
until nina, now actually livid with worry, said:

"tom wilkins! doctor wilkins, if you wish, -- i claim a natural right to
know why my child is unconscious! and you, a physician, cannot, by law,
withhold such information."

but wilkins, trying to find a way out of a most unhappy condition of affairs,
said:-

"now, nina, you know i wouldn't hold anything from you if virginia was
critically ill, but that is not so. if you'll only wait until morning you'll
find that i am right."

but this only built obstruction upon obstruction to nina's strong will, until
dr. wilkins, noticing coming total prostration, had to say:-

"nina, virginia is drunk; horribly drunk."

"drunk!!" widow adams had to grab wildly at a chair, sinking into it; at
first as limp as a rag, but instantly springing up, blood surging to a
throbbing brow. "drunk! drunk!! my baby drunk!! tom, i thank you for trying
to ward off this shock; but i'll say right now, with my hand on high, that i
am going to start a rumpus about this atrocity that will rock branton hills to
its foundations! who got this young school-girl drunk? i know that virginia
wouldn't drink that stuff willingly. how could it occur? i pay through
taxation for a patrolman in this district; in fact in all districts of this
city. what is a patrolman for, if not to watch for just such abominations as
this, pray ?"

dr. wilkins didn't say, though probably thinking of a rumor that had run
around town for a month or two. at this point virginia, partly conscious was
murmuring:

"oh, norman! oh! i'm so sick!!" don't!! i can't drink it!

this brought forth all of nina adams' fury instantly.

aha! aha! norman! so that's it! that's norman antor, that low-down, good-
for-nothing night-owl ! son of our big councilman antor. so!! it's Â‘norman! i
can't drink it'!

tom wilkins, this thing is going to court !!"

* * * *

about noon of that day, our good doctor, walking sadly along, ran across mayor
gadsby, in front of city hall; and did his honor "burn" at such an
abomination?

"what? high school boys forcing young girls to drink? and right in our
glorious branton hills? oh, but, doc! this can't pass without a trial!"

"that's all right, john; but a thorn sticks out, right in plain sight."

"thorn? thorn? what kind of a thorn ?" and our mayor was flushing hard, as no
kind of wild thoughts would point to any kind of thorns.

"that thorn," said wilkins, "is young norman antor; son of--'

"not of councilman antor?"

"i am sorry to say that it is so," and wilkins told of virginia's half-
conscious murmurings. "and nina wants to know why, with a patrolman in all
parts of town, it isn't known that all this drinking is going on. i didn't say
what i thought, but you know that a patrolman don't go into dancing pavilions
and night clubs until conditions sanction it."

"who is supplying this liquor ?"

"councilman antor; but without knowing it.

all his honor could say was to gasp:

"how do you know that, doc ?" and wilkins told of four calls for him in four
days, to young girls, similarly drunk.

"and my first call was to young mary-- antor's tiny grammar school kid, who
was as drunk as virginia; but, on coming out of it, told of robbing antor's
pantry, in which liquor was always on hand for his political pals, you know;
that poor kid taking it to various affairs and giving it to boys; and winning
Â‘popularity' that way."

"so," said gadsby, "councilman antor's boy and girl, brought up in a family
with liquor always handy. now, with ignorant, childish braggadocio, bring
councilman antor into this mix--up! i'm sorry for antor; but his pantry is in
for an official visit.

it wasn't so long from this day that court got around to this rumpus. to say
that that big room was full, would put it mildly although, according to an
old saying, "a cat is only as big as its skin," that room's walls almost
burst, as groups of church organizations and law abiding inhabitants almost
fought for admission; until standing room was nothing but a suffocating jam.
as gadsby and doc wilkins sat watching that sight, gadsby said: "it's an
outpouring of rightful wrath by a proud city's population; who, having put out
good, hard work in bringing it to its high standing as a community, today,
will not stand for anything that will put a blot on its municipal flag, which
is, right now, proudly flying on city hall."

as wilkins was about to say so, a rising murmur was rolling in from out back,
for norman antor was coming in, in custody of a big patrolman, and with four
youths, all looking, not only anxious, but plainly showing humiliation at such
an abomination against trusting young girlhood. scowls and angry rumblings
told that high official, way up in back of that mahogany railing, that but a
spark would start a riot. so, in a calm, almost uncanny way, this first trial
of its kind in branton hills got along to a court official calling, loudly:
"virginia adams!

if you think that you know what a totally still room is, by no kink of your
imagination could you possibly know such an awful, frightful hush as struck
that crowd dumb, as virginia, a tall, dark, willowy, stylish girl quickly took
that chair, from which truth, in all its purity, is customarily brought out,
but virginia was not a bit shaky nor anxious, nor doubtful of an ability to go
through with this ugly task.

gadsby and doc wilkins sat watching nina; gadsby with profound sympathy, but
wilkins with an old school-pal's intuition, watching for a blowup. but nina
didn't blow up, that is, not visibly: but that famous rigid will was boiling,
full tilt; boiling up to a point for landing, "tooth and claw" on our pompous
councilman's son, if things didn't turn out satisfactorily.

virginia didn't occupy that stand long; it was only a half-sobbing account of
a night at a dancing pavilion; and with a sob or two from a woman or girl in
that vast crowd. all virginia said was: "norman antor said i was a cry-baby
if i wouldn't drink with him. but i said, Â‘all right; i am a cry-baby! and i
always will turn Â‘crybaby' if anybody insists that i drink that stuff."
(just a short lull, a valiant fight for control, and)--

"but i had to drink!! norman was tipping my chair back and john allison was
forcing that glass into my mouth! i got so sick i couldn't stand up, and
didn't know a thing until i found i was on a couch in my own parlor."

a court official said, kindly:

"that will do, miss adams."

during this, nina was glaring at norman; but virginia's bringing allison into
it, also, was too much. but wilkins, watching narrowly, said, snappingly:-

"nina! this is a court room."

now this trial was too long to go into, word for word; so i'll say that not
only norman antor and allison, but also our big, pompous councilman antor,
according to our popular slang, "got in bad"; and branton hills' dancing and
night spots got word to prohibit liquor or shut up shop. young mary antor was
shown that liquor, in dancing pavilions or in a family pantry was not good for
young girls; and soon this most disgusting affair was a part of branton hills'
history. and what vast variations a city's history contains! what valorous
acts by far-thinking officials! what dark daubs of filth by avaricious crooks!
what an array of past mayors; what financial ups and downs; what growth in
population. but, as i am this particular city's historian, with strict
orthography controlling it, this history will not rank, in volubility, with
any by an author who can sow, broadcast, all handy, common words which
continuously try to jump into it!

branton hills, now** **an up-to-today city, coming to
that point of motorizing all city apparatus, had just a last, solitary
company of that class which an inhabitant frantically calls to a burning
buildingÂ—company four, in our big shopping district; all apparatus of which
was still animal drawn; four big, husky chaps: two blacks and two roans. any
thought of backing in any sort of motor apparatus onto this floor, upon which
this loyal four had, during manyÂ’ months, stood, champing at bits, pawing and
whinnying to start out that big door, in daylight or night-gloom, calm or
storm, Â— was mighty tough for old dowd and clancy. a man living day and
night with such glorious, vivacious animals, grows to look upon such as almost
human. bright, brainy, sparkling colts can win a strong hold on a man, you
know.

and now!! what form of disposal was awaiting "big four", as clancy and dowd
took a fond joy in dubbing this pair of blacks and two roans? clancy and dowd
didnÂ’t know anything but that a mass of cogs, piping, brass railings, an
intricacy of knobs, buttons, spark-plugs, forward clutch and so forth was
coming tomorrow.

"aw!!" said dowd, moaningly, "you know, clancy, that good old light shifting
about and that light Â‘stompingÂ’ in that row of stalls, at night; you know, old
man, that happy crunching of corn; that occasional cough; that tail-swatting
at a fly or crazy zigzagging moth; that grand animal odor from that back part
of this floor."

"i do," said clancy. "and now what? a loud whizz of a motor! a suffocating
blast of gas! and a dorn thing a-standinÂ’ on this floor, wid no brain; wid
nothinÂ’ lovinÂ’ about it. wid no soul."

"um-m-m," said dowd, "i dunno about an animal havinÂ’ a soul, but itÂ’s got a
thing not so dom far fromit."

as clancy sat worrying about various forms of disposal for big four, an
official phoning from city hall, said just an ordinary, common word, which had
clancy bopping up and down, furiously mad.

"whatÂ’s all this? whatÂ’s all this?" dowd sang out, coming from a stall, in
which a good rubbing down of a shiny coat, and continuous loving pats had
brought snuggling and nosing.

"auction!!" said clancy, wildly, and sitting down with a thud.

"auction? auction for big four? what?

put up on a block as you would a jap urn or a phony diamond ?"

"uh-huh; thatÂ’s what city hall says.

an awful calm slunk insidiously onto that big smooth floor, as dowd and
clancy, chins on hands, sat,Â—just thinking! finally clancy burst out with:-

"aw! if an alarm would only ring in, right now, to stop my brain from
cracking! auction! bah!!"

*** * * ***

a big crowd stood in city park, including his honor, many a councilman, and,
naturally, old bill simpkins, who was always bound to know what was going on.
a loud, fast-talking man, on a high stand, was shouting:Â— "all right, you
guys! how much? how much for this big black? a mountain of muscular ability!
young, kind, willing, smart! how much? how much?"

bids abominably low at first, but slowly crawling up; crawling slowly, as a
boa constrictor crawls up on its victim. but, without fail, as a bid was
sung out from that surging, gawking, chin-lifting mob, a woman, way in back,
would surpass it! and that woman hung on, as no boa constrictor could! gadsby,
way down in front, couldnÂ’t fathom it, at all. why should a woman want big
four? a solitary animal, possibly, but four!so his honor, turning and making
his way toward that back row, ran smack into nancy.

"daddy! lady standish is outbidding all this crowd i"

"oho! so thatÂ’s it !"

so gadsby, pushing his way again through that jam, and coming to that most
worthy woman, said:-

"by golly, sally! itÂ’s plain that you want big four."

"john gadsby, you ought to know that i do. why! a man might buy that big
pair of roans to hitch up to a plow! or hook a big black onto an ash cart!"

"i know that, sally, but that small back yard of yours isÂ—"

"john!! do your municipal occupations knock all past daysÂ’ doings out of
your skull? you know that i own a grand, big patch of land out in our
suburbs, half as big as branton hills. so this big four will just run around,
jump, roll, kick, and loaf until doomsday, if i can wallop this mob out of
bidding."

as lady standish was long known as standing first in valuation on branton
hillsÂ’ tax list, nobody in that crowd was so foolish as to hang on, in a war
of bidding, against that bankroll. so gadsby shook hands, put an arm about
nancy, walking happily away, as a roar of plaudits shot out from that crowd,
for that loud, fast-talking man was announcing:Â— "sold! all four to lady
standish!!"

as gadsby and nancy ran across old bill simpkins, gadsby said:Â—

"bill, you know that grand old day.

look! a building is burning! a patrolman has put in an alarm! and now look!
corning down broadway! two big blacks, and following on, two big roans! what
grand, mighty animals! nostrils dilating; big hoofs pounding; gigantic flanks
bulging; mighty lungs snorting; monstrous backs straining; thick, full tails
standing straight out. coming, sir! coming, sir!! just as fast as brain and
brawn can! and that gong-clanging, air-splitting, whistling, shining,
sizzling, smoking four tons of apparatus roars past, grinding and hanging on
broadwayÂ’s paving! you saw all that, bill.Â’Â’

"uh-huh," said simpkins, "but a motor donÂ’t hurt our paving so much."

as nancy took his honorÂ’s arm again, gadsby said:Â— "poor, cranky old bill!
always running things down.Â’

but how about clancy and dowd? on moving out from that big park, that happy
pair, if knighthood was in bloom today, would bow low, and kiss fair lady
standishÂ’s hand.

oh hum. now that nancy's baby is gurgling or squalling,
according to a full tummy, or tooth conditions; and nancy is looking, as
gadsby says, "as good as a million dollars," i find that that busy young son-
of-a-gun, dan cupid, is still snooping around branton hills and now who do you
think is hit? try to think of a lot of girls in gadsby's old organization
youth. no, it's not sarah young, nor lucy donaldson, nor virginia adams. it
was brought to your historian in this way:

lady gadsby and his honor sat around his parlor lamp, his honor noticing that
lady g. was smiling, finally saying:

"john."

"uh-huh."

"kathlyn and john smith --",

"what?"

"i said that kathlyn and john smith want to --"

"oho! aha!! i'll call up pastor brown to start right off dolling up his big
church!"

"no, no! not now! wait about six months. this is only a troth. folks don't
jump into matrimony, that way.

"hm-m-m! i don't know about that," said gadsby, laughing; and thinking way
back to that captivating iassoo!

john smith was branton hills' famous church organist; and, at a small, dainty
lunch, kathlyn told of this troth. in a day or two about all branton hills'
young girlhood had, on rushing in, told kathlyn what a grand chap john was;
and all that town's young manhood had told john similar things about kathlyn.
so, as this is a jumpy sort of a story, anyway, why not skip months of happy
ardor, and find how this tying of an additional knot in our mayor's family
will turn out? you know that kathlyn don't think much of pomp or show, and
such a big church ritual as nancy had is all right if you want it, but kathlyn
had fond thoughts of just a small, parlor affair, with only a group of old
chums; and no throwing of old boots, and "sharp food-grains," which work
downward, to scratch your back, or stick in your hair as stubbornly as burrs.

"such crazy doings," said kathlyn, "always look foolish. it's odd how anybody
can follow up such antiquarian customs."

as kathlyn's big night was drawing nigh, lady gadsby and nancy had constantly
thought of a word synonymous with "woman", and that word is "scrub." which is
saying that gadsby's mansion was about to submit to a gigantic scrubbing,
painting, dusting, and so forth, so that kathlyn should start out on that ship
of matrimony from a spic-span wharf. just why a woman thinks that a grain of
dust in a totally inconspicuous spot is such a catastrophic abnormality is
hard to say; but if you simply broach a thought that a grain of it might lurk
in back of a piano, or up back of an oil painting, a flood of soap-suds will
instantly burst forth; and any man who can flnd any of his things for four
days is a clairvoyant, or a magician!

as gadsby sat watching all this his thoughts took this form:

"isn't it surprising what an array' of things a woman can drag forth,
burrowing into attics, rooms and nooks! things long out of mind; an old thing;
a worn-out thing; but it has lain in that room, nook or bag until just such a
riot of soap and scrubbing brush brings it out. and, as i think of it, a human
mind could, and should go through just such a ransacking, occasionally; for
you don't know half of what an accumulation of rubbish is kicking about, in
its dark, musty corridors. old fashions in thoughts; bigotry; vanity; all
lying stagnant. so why not drag out and sort all that stuff, discarding all
which is of no valuation? about half of us will find, in our minds, a room,
having on its door a card, saying: "it was not so in my day." go at that room,
right off. that "my day" is long past. "today" is boss, now. if that "my day"
could crawl up on "today," what a mix-up in world affairs would occur! ox cart
against aircraft; oil lamps against arc lights! slow, mail information against
radio! but, as all this stuff is laid out, what will you do with it? nobody
wants it. so i say, burn it, and tomorrow morning, how happy you will find
that musty old mind!"

but his honor's mansion finally got back to normal as clouds of dust and swats
and slaps from dusting cloths had shown lady gadsby and kathlyn that "that
parlor was simply awful" though gadsby, julius and bill always had thought
that "it looks all right," causing kathlyn to say:

"a man thinks all dust stays outdoors."

though marrying off a girl in church is a big proposition, it can't discount,
in important data, doing a similar act in a parlor; for, as a parlor is a
mighty small room in comparison with a church, you can't point to an inch of
it that won't do its small part on such an occasion; so a woman will find
about a thousand spots in which to put tacks from which to run strings holding
floral chains, sprays, or small lights. so gadsby, bill and julius, with
armfuls of string and mouthfuls of tacks, not only put in hours at pounding
said tacks, but an occasional vigorous word told that a thumb was
substituting! but what man wouldn't gladly bang his thumb, or bark his shins
on a wobbly stool, to aid so charming a girl as kathlyn? and, on that most
romantically important of all days!!

anyway, that day's night finally cast its soft shadows on branton hills.
night, with its twinkling stars, its lightning-bugs, and its call for girls'
most glorious wraps; and youths' "swallowtails", and tall silk hats,--is
cupid's own; lacking but organ music to turn it into utopia.

and was gadsby's mansion lit up from porch to roof? no. only that parlor and a
room or two upstairs, for wraps, mascarra, a final hair-quirk, a dab of lip-
stick; for kathlyn, against all forms of "vain display," said: "i'm only
going to marry a man; not put on a circus for all branton hills."

"all right, darling," said gadsby, "you shall marry in a pitch dark room if
you wish; for, as you say, a small, parlor affair is just as binding as a big
church display. it's only your vows that count."

so but a small group stood lovingly in gadsby's parlor, as parson brown
brought into unity kathlyn and john. kathlyn was radiantly happy; and john,
our famous organist, was as happy with only charming sarah young at an upright
piano, as any organist in a big choir loft.

but to lady gadsby and his honor, this was, in a way, a sad affair; for that
big mansion now had lost two of its inhabitants; and, as many old folks know,
a vast gap, or chasm thus forms, backward across which flit happy visions of
laughing, romping, happy girlhood; happy hours around a sitting room lamp; and
loving trips in night's small hours to a room or two, just to know that a
small girl was all right, or that a big girl was not in a draft. but, though
marrying off a girl will bring such a vacancy, that happy start out into a
world throbbing with vitality and joy, can allay a bit of that void in a big
mansion, or a small cabin. a birth, a tooth, a growth, a mating; and, again a
birth, a tooth, and so on. such is that mighty law, which was laid down on
that first of all days; and which will control man, animal, and plant until
that last of all nights.

so it was first nancy, and now kathlyn; and branton hills' gossips thought of
bill and julius, with whom many a young, romantic maid would gladly sit in a
wistaria-drooping arbor on a warm, moon-lit night; flighty maids with bill,
adoring his high class social gossip; studious maids with julius, finding much
to think about in his practical talks on physics, zoology, and natural
history. thu bill and julius had shown no liability of biting at any alluring
bait on any matrimonial hook; and gadsby, winking knowingly, would say:

"bill is too frivolous, just now; and julius too busy at our hall of natural
history. but just wait until dan cupid starts shooting again, and watch things
whiz !"

sarah, walking along past city park on a raw, cold night,
found a tiny,-- oh so tiny,--puppy, whining, shaking and crying with cold,
picking up that small bunch of babyhood, sarah was in quandary as just what to
do; but priscilla standish, coming along, said: "oh! poor baby!! who owns
him, sarah?"

"i don't know; but say! wouldn't your ma --?"

"my ma would!! bring him along, and wrap your cloak around him. it's awfully
cold for so young a puppy.

so lady standish, with that "back-yard zoo soon bad his quaking babyship
lapping good warm milk, and a stumpy tail wagging as only a tiny puppy's
stumpy tail can wag. along towards six o clock a vigorous pounding on lady
standish's front door brought priscilla, to find old bill simpkins with a
tiny, wildly sobbing girl of about four. walking into lady standish's parlor,
simpkins said:

"this kid has lost a-a-a-crittur; i think it was a pup, wasn't it, kid?"

a vigorous up and down bobbing of a small shock of auburn hair.

"so," said simpkins, "i thought it might show up in your back-yard gang."

"it has, bill, you old grouch!!' for lady standish, as about all of branton
hills grown-ups, was in school with bill. "it's all right, now, and warm and
cuddly. don't cry, mary darling. priscilia will bring in your puppy.

as that happy baby sat crooning to that puppy, also a baby, old bill had to
snort out: "huh! a lot of fuss about a pup, i'll say !" "oh, pooh-pooh,
bill simpkins !" said lady s.

"why shouldn't a child croon to a puppy? folks bring all kinds of animals to
my back yard, if sick or hurt. want to walk around my zoo?"

"no!! no zoos for councilman simpkins! animals ain't worth so much fuss !"

"pshaw, bill! you talk ridiculously! i wish you could know of about half of my
works. i want to show' you a big angora cat. a dog bit its foot so i put a
balm on it and wound it with cotton --"

"you put balm on a cat's foot!! bah!"

but lady standish didn't mind old bill's ravings having known him so long; so
said:

"oh, how's that old corn of yours? can't i put a balm --"

"no! you cannot! mary, bring your pup; i'm going along."

as a happy tot was passing out that big, kindly front door, sarah said

"was councilman simpkins always so grouchy, lady standish ?"

"no. not until john gadsby Â‘cut him out' and won lady gadsby."

"aha!! and a ho, ho!!" said sarah, laughing gayly. "so folks had what you call
Â‘affairs' way back, just as today !" and also laughing inwardly, at what lucy
had said about this kindly lady standish and his honor.

ah! that good old schoolday, now so long past! how it bobs up, now-a-days, if
you watch a young lad and a happy, giggling lass holding hands or laughing
uproariously at youthful witticisms. and how diaphanous and almost imaginary
that far-back day looks, if that girl with whom you stood up and said "i do,"
laughs, if you try a bit of romantic kissing, and says:

"why, john! how silly! you act actually childish!!"

* * * *

and now it won't do any harm to hark back a bit on this history, to find how
our big night school is doing. following that first graduation day, many and
many a child, and adult, too, had put in hours on various nights; and if you
visit it you will find almost as many forms of instruction going on as you
will find pupils; for thousands of folks today know of topics which, with a
bit of study, could turn out profitably. now branton hills had, as you know,
built this school for public instruction; and, as with all such institutions,
visiting days occur. and what a display of goods and workmanship! and what
bright, happy pupils, standing proudly back of it! for mankind knows hardly a
joy which will surpass that of approval of his work.

gadsby's party first took in a wood-working shop; finding small stands which
fit so happily into many a living room nook; book racks for walls or floor;
moth-proof bins, smoking stands, many with fancy uprights or inlaid tops; high
chairs for tiny tots; arm chairs for old folks; cribs, tobacco humidors,
stools, porch and lawn swings, ballbats, rolling pins, mixing boards; in fact
about anything that a man can fashion from wood.

as an indication of practical utility coming from such public instruction, a
man told gadsby:-

"i didn't know much about wood-working tools until i got into this class. this
thing i am making would cost about thirty dollars to buy, but all it cost, so
far, is two dollars and a half, for wood and glass," which gadsby thought was
worth knowing about; as so many of his council had put forth so many
complaints against starting such a school without charging for instruction. in
an adjoining room his honor's party found boys banging and pounding happily;
and, if you should ask, -noisily, --on brasswork: making bowls, trays, lamp
standards, photograph stands, book supports and similar artistic things.
across from that was a blacksmith shop, with its customary flying sparks and
sizzling cooling-vats.

but, by going upstairs, away from all this din, gadsby, humming happily, found
sarah and lucy, nancy and kathlyn amidst a roomful of girls doing dainty
fancy-work. and what astonishing ability most of that group did show! nancy
bought a baby-cap which was on a par with anything in branton hills' shops;
and though kathlyn said it was "just too cunning for anything", john smith's
bungalow didn't contain anybody (just now!) whom it would fit.

but lady gadsby, with a party of branton hills matrons, was calling for gadsby
to hurry down a long corridor to a loom-room, saying that such dainty rugs,
mats and scarfs of cotton and silk hung all around on walls or racks, it was
truly astonishing that girls could do such first-class work, having had long
hours of labor in broadway's shops all day.

although most of our standard occupations found room for activity, an
occasional oddity was run across. so his honor's party found two boys and two
girls working at that always fascinating art of glass-blowing. and what a
dainty trick it is! and what an opportunity to burn a thumb or two, if you
don't wait for things to cool! things of charming form and fragility, grow
as by a magician's wand, from small glass tubings of various colors. birds
with glorious wings, ships of crystal sailing on dark billows, tiny buildings
in a thick glass ball which upon agitation, stirs up a snowstorm which softly
lands on pink roof-tops; many a fancy drinking glass and bowl, oil lamps, ash
trays, and gaudy strings of tiny crystal balls for adorning party gowns. and
did nancy want to buy out this shop? and did frank doubt his ability to do so?
and did kathlyn ask: "how about it, johnny?" and did john smith say: "nothing
doing"? it was just that. but it only shows that good old branton hills'
inclination for aiding anything which looks worthy; and such a school i know
you will admit, looks that way.

tramping upstairs, still again, gadsby and party found a class so varying from
all downstairs as to bring forth murmurs of joy, for this was known as "music
floor"; upon which was taught all forms of that most charming of all arts--
from solo work to community singing, from solitary violin pupil to a full
brass band. on our party's arrival, lucy, doris and virginia, hurrying from
classrooms, sang, in trio, that soft, slow italian song, "0 solo mio;" and, as
gadsby proudly said, "not for many a day had such music rung out in branton
hills ;" for most girls, if in training with a practical vocalist, can
sing; and most charmingly,

in a far room was a big string outfit of banjos, mandolins and guitars,
happily strumming out a smart, throbbing spanish fandango, until his honor
could not avoid a swinging of body and tapping of foot; causing lady gadsby to
laugh, saying:-

"rhythm has a mighty grip on zulus, i am told."

to which our swaying mayor said:-

"anyway, a zulu has a lot of fun out of it. if singing, playing and dancing
could only crowd out sitting around and moping, folks would find that a zulu
can hand us a tip or two on happy living."

but all music is not of string form; so, in a big auditorium, our party found
a full brass band of about fifty boys, with a man from branton hills'
municipal band as instructor. now as gadsby was, as you boys say, "not at all
bad" on a big bass horn in his youthful days, this band instructor, thinking
of it, was asking him to "sit it" and play. so, as lady gadsby, two girls,
and two sons-in-law sat smiling and giggling in a front row, and as fifty boys
could hardly play, from laughing, that big horn got such a blasting that it
was practically a horn solo! and nancy, doubling up from giggling, said:
"d-d-daddy! if-f-f-f b-b-b-barnum's circus hits town, you must join its cl-cl-
clown band !"

but i had to rush this happy party out of that building, as an awful thing was
occurring but a block from it; which told its own story by a lurid light,
flashing through windows; clanging gongs, shrilling horns and running,
shouting crowds; for an old, long-vacant factory building just across from
city hall, was blazing furiously. rushing along broadway was that "motor
thing," with clancy and dowd clinging wildly on a running board. pulling up at
a hydrant, clancy said to his honor:-

"as i was a-hangin' onto this dom thing, a-thinkin' it was going to bang into
a big jam at two crossroads, i says, Â‘by gorra! that big pair of blacks
wouldn't bang into nuthin'! but this currazy contraption! it ain't got no
brain--no nuthin, no soul--nuthin' but halitosis! !"

as gadsby took a long look at clancy's "dom thing, a vision was wafting
through his mind of a calm, sunny patch of land, way out in branton hills'
suburbs, on which day by day, two big blacks and two big roans could--anyway,
taking all things into account, a big conflagration, with its din, rush and
panic, is no spot for such animals as big four." as for old bill's squawk
about animals "ruining our paving," gadsby thought that was but small talk,
for paving, anyway, can't last for long. but, that is a glorious spot, way
our amongst our hills!

gadsby took his party to a room in city hall from which that burning factory
was in plain sight; and as nancy and kathlyn stood watching that awful sight a
big wall, crashing down, had a crowd rushing to that spot.

a man's form was brought out to a patrol wagon; and a boy, rushing past city
hall, sang out to gadsby

"it's old man donaldson! tiny nancy, almost swooning, said:

"donaldson? oh, kathy! that's lucy's

dad, of company two, you know!" and frank and john smith shot wildly
downstairs to find out about

it. in an instant a sobbing girlish form was dashing madly from that night
school building towards our municipal hospital. it was lucy; bright, always
laughing lucy; but half an hour ago singing so happily in that girls' trio.

as that big factory was still blazing furiously, frank and john, coming in,
said:

"it was only a scalp wound, and a sprung wrist. lucy is coming upstairs, now."
lucy, coming in, badly blown from running and fright, said:-

"that wall caught daddy; but it was so old and thin it didn't crush him. oh!
how i worry if that alarm rings!"

"but," put in nancy, "it's man's work. pshaw!! what good am i? why, i
couldn't do a thing around that factory, right now! look at my arm! about as
big as a ball bat!" and as frank took that sad, tiny form in his arms,
gadsby said:

"all throughout natural history, nancy, you will find man built big and
strong, and woman small and frail. that is so that man can obtain food for his
family, and that woman may nourish his offspring. but today, i am sorry to
say, you'll find girls working hard, in gymnasiums, fondly hoping to attain
man s muscular parity. how silly!! it's going straight against all natural
laws. girls can find a lot of bodily good in gymnasiums, i'll admit! but
not that much. and as for your Â‘ball-bat' arm, as you call it, what of it?
you'd look grand, now wouldn't you, with frank's big oak-branch arms hanging
way down to your shins. but that ball-bat arm can curl around your tiny baby
as softy as a down pillow. aw, darling! don't say you can't do anything; for
i know you can. how about our old organization of youth days? you, --"

and nancy, now laughing, said, gaily:

"oho! our old organization! what fun it was! but, daddy, i don't know of any
young crowd following us up.

"no. our young folks of today think such things too much work ;" and, as
that old factory was but a mass of ruins now, and midnight was approaching,
gadsby's family was soon in that mythical land of nod, in which no horns blow,
no sparks fall; only occasionally a soft gurgling from a crib in nancy's
bungalow.

it is an odd** **kink of humanity which cannot find any
valuation in spots of natural glory. but such kinks do run riot in man's
mind, occasionally, and branton hills ran up against such, on a council night
; for a bill was brought up by old bill simpkins for disposal of city park
to a land company, for building lots ! at first word of such a thought, gadsby
was totally dumb, from an actual impossibility of thinking that any man,
bringing tip such a bill, wasn't plumb crazy!

"what! our main park; including our zoo?"

"just that," said simpkins. "just a big patch of land, and a foolish batch of
animals that do nobody any good. you can't hitch a lion up to a city- dump
cart, you know ; nor a hippopotamus to a patrol wagon. what good is that
bunch of hair and horns, anyway? and that park! wait!! just grass, grass,
grass! branton hills pay's for planting that grass, pays for sprinkling it,
pays for cutting it--arid throws it away! so i say, put it into building
lots, and draw good, solid cash from it."

an italian councilman, tony bandamita was actually boiling during this
outburst; and, in a flash, as simpkins quit, was up, shouting:

"i gotta four bambinos. my bambinos playa in thatta park: run, jumpa and
rolla. grow bigga an strong. my woman say no coulda do thatta if playa all day
on bricka walks. i say no buncha land sharks buya thatta park!! how many you
guys go to it, anyway? huh? notta many! but go!! walk around; sniffa its
blossoms; look at grand busha; sit on softa grass! you do thatta, an' i know
you not stick no building on it! !"

so, at mayor gadsby's instigation, council did not ballot on simpkins' bill;
and said it would go, as tony thought only right, and "look atta gooda busha."

in a day or two this pompous body of solons was strolling about that big park.
no man with half a mind could fail to thrill at its vistas of shrubs, ponds,
lawns, arbors, fancy fowl, small pavilions and curving shady pathways. as
gadsby was "takinga his owna iooka," old bill simpkins, coming a-snorting and
a-fussing along, sang out, gruffly:-

"all right; this is it! this is that grand patch of grass that pays branton
hills no tax!"

but gadsby was thinking--and thinking hard, too. finally saying:

"bill, supposing that any day you should walk along that big pathway known in
sunday school as Â‘our straight but narrow way.' you would find coming towards
you, all sorts of folks: a king, roaring past in his big chariot, a capitalist
with his bands full of bonds, an old, old lady, on a crutch. such passings
would bring to you various thoughts. but, supposing it was a possibility that
you saw bill simpkins coming your way. aha! what an opportunity to watch
that grouchy old--"

"that what?"

"i'll say it again: that grouchy old crab. how you would gawk at him, that
most important of all folks, to you. how you would look at his clothing, his
hat, his boots! that individual would pass an inquiry such as you had not
thought it a possibility to put a man up against. bill, i think that if you
should pass councilman simpkins on that big pathway, you would say: Â‘what a
grouchy old crittur that was!"

old bill stood calmly during this oration, and, looking around that big park,
said:

"john, you know how to talk, all right, all right. i'll admit that things you
say do do a lot of good around this town. but if i should run across this guy
you talk about, on that vaporous highway, or Â‘boardwalk', as i should call
it, \-- i'd say, right out good and loud: "hi! you!! hurry back to branton
hills and put up a block of buildings in that silly park!" and gadsby, walking
away, saw that an inborn grouch is as hard to dig out as a wisdom tooth.

now this council's visit on this particular day, was a sly plan of gadsby's,
for his honor is, you know, youth's champion, and having known many an
occasion on which youth has won out against council opposition. so, our big
city officials, strolling around that park, soon saw a smooth lawn upon which
sat, stood, or ran, almost a thousand small tots of from four to six. in
dainty, flimsy outfits, many carrying fairy wands, it was a sight so charming
as to thaw out a brass idol! amidst this happy party stood a tall shaft, or
mast, having hanging from its top a thick bunch of long ribbons, of pink,
lilac, gray, and similar dainty colors; and around it stood thirty tots--
thirty tiny fists all agog to grasp thirty gay ribbons. old bill took a look,
and said, growlingly, to his honor:

"what's all this stuff, anyway?"

"bill, and branton hills' council," said gadsby, "today is may day--that day
so symbolic of budding blossoms, mating birds and sunny sky. you all know, or
ought to, of that charming custom of childhood of toddling round and round a
tall mast, in and out, in and out,--thus winding gay ribbons about it in a
spiral. that is but a small part of what this park can do for branton hills.
but it is an important part; for happy childhood grows up into happy adults,
and happy adults" --looking right at councilman simpkins-- "can form a happy
city council."

now a kid is always a kid; and a kid knows just how any sport should go. so,
just by luck, a tot who was to hold a gay ribbon didn't show up; and that big
ring stood waiting, for that round-and-round march just couldn't start with
a ribbon hanging down! but a kid's mind is mighty quick and sharp; and a small
tot of four had that kind of mind, saying:

"oh! that last ribbon! isn't anybody going to hold it?"

now historians shouldn't laugh. historians should only put down what occurs.
but i, your historian of branton hills, not only had to laugh, but to roar;
for this tot, worrying about that hanging ribbon, saw our big pompous council
group looking on. now a council is nothing to a tot of four; just a man or
two, standing around. so, trotting up and grasping old bill's hand, this tot
said:

"you'll hold it, won't you?"

"what!!" and simpkins was all colors on throat and brow as branton hills'
council stood, grinning. but that baby chin was straining up, and a pair of
baby arms was pulling, oh, so hard; and, in a sort of coma, big, pompous,
grouchy councilman simpkins took that hanging ribbon! a band struck up a quick
march, and round and round trod that happy, singing ring, with old bill
looming up as big as a mountain amongst its foothills! laugh? i thought his
honor would burst!

as that ribbon spiral got wound, simpkins, coming back, said, with a growl:-

"i was afraid i would tramp on a kid or two in that silly stunt."

"it wasn't silly, bill," said gadsby. "it was grand!" ****and tony bandamita
sang out:

"gooda work, councilmanna! my four bambinos walka right in fronta you, and
twista ribbons !"

simpkins, though, would only snort, and pass on.

on a warm sunday, kathlyn and julius, poking around in
branton hills' suburbs, occasionally found an odd formation of fossilization,
installing it amidst our hall of natural history's displays. shortly following
such an installation, a famous savant on volcanic activity noting a most
propitious rock formation amongst julius' groups, thought of cutting into it;
for ordinary, most prosaic rocks may contain surprising information; and,
upon arriving at branton hills' railway station, ran across old pat ryan, czar
of its trunk room.

"ah, my man! i want to find a lapidary."

"a what?"

"it isn't a Â‘what,' it's a lapidary."

"lapidary, is it? lapidary, lapidary, lapi-- lapi--la--. no, i--"

now this savant was in a hurry, and said, snappily:-

"but a city as big as branton hills has a lapidary, i trust !"

"oh, branton hills has a lot of things. but, wait a bit! it ain't a lavatory
what you want, is it?''

but at this instant, to old pat's salvation, kathlyn, passing by, said:

"all right, pat. i know about this ;" and, both taking a taxi, old pat walking
round and round, scratching his bald crown, was murmuring:

"lapid--aho! i got it! it's probably a crittur up at that zoo! i ain't forgot
that hop, skip and jump, walloping australian tornado! and now his honor has
put in a lapidary!! i think i'll go up with that old canvas bag! but why all
sich high-brow stuff in naming critturs? this lapidary thing might turn out
only a rat, or a goofy bug!"

but that fairy bug, dan cupid, goofy or not, as you wish, was buzzing around
again; and, though this story is not of wild, romantic infatuations, in which
rival villains fight for a fair lady's hand, i am bound to say that cupid has
put on an act varying much from his works in gadsby's mansion; for this
arrow from his bow caught two young folks to whom a dollar bill was as long,
broad and high as city hall. both had to work for a living; but by saving a
bit, off and on, sarah young, who, you know, with priscilla standish first
thought of our night school, and paul johnson, who did odd jobs around town,
such as caring for lawns, painting and "man-of-all-work," had put by a small
bank account. paul was an orphan, as was sarah, who had grown up with a kindly
old man, tom young; his "old woman," dying at about sarah's fourth birthday.
(that word "old woman, is common amongst irish folks, and is not at all
ungracious. it had to crawl into this story, through orthographical taboos,
you know.) but sarah, now a grown young lady, had that natural longing for a
spot in which a woman might find that joy of living, in having "things to do
for just us two" if bound by cupid's gift--matrimony.

many a day in passing that big church of nancy's grand display, or gadsby's
rich mansion, sarah had thought fondly about such things; for, as with any
girl, marrying amidst blossoms, glamour and organ music was a goal, to attain
which was actual bliss. but such rituals call for cash; and lots of it, too.
also, old tom young had no room in any way fit for such an occasion.

so sarah would walk past, possibly a bit sad, but looking forward to a coming
happy day. and it wasn't so far off. my, no! as nancy had thought april was "a
million months long," sarah's days swung past in a dizzy whirl; during which,
in company with paul on saturday nights, a small thing or two was happily
bought for that "cupid's coop," as both found a lot of fun in calling it. but
sarah naturally had girl chums, just as nancy and kathlyn had; for most of
that old organization was still in town; and many a gift found its way to this
girl who, though poor in worldly goods, was as rich as old king midas in a
bright, happy disposition; for anybody who didn't know that magic captivation
of sarah young's laugh, that rich crown of light, fluffy hair, or that grand,
proud, upright walk, wasn't amongst branton hills' population. paul,
scratching around shady paths, a potato patch or two, front yards, back yards,
and city parks, was known to many an old family man; who upon knowing of his
coming variation in living conditions, thought way, way back to his own
romantic youth; so paul, going to sarah at night, brought small but practical
gifts for that "coop."

as sarah and paul stood in front of city hall on a hot july night, sarah
scanning branton hills' "post" for "vacant rooms," who should walk up but his
honor! and that kindly hand shot out with:-

"aha! if it isn't paul and sarah! what's sarah hunting for, paul ?"

"sarah is looking for a room for us, sir.

"us? did you say Â‘us'? oho! h-mmm! i'm on! how soon will you want it?"

"oh," said sarah, blushing, "not for about a month."

"but," said his honor, "you shouldn't start out in a room. you would want from
four to six**, **i should think."

sarah, still ogling that "rooms" column, said, softly:-

"four to six rooms? that's just grand if you can afford such. but, --

Â‘wait!" said gadsby, who, taking paul's and sarah's arms, and strolling along,
told of a small six-room bungalow of his, just around from nancy s.

"and you two will pay just nothing a month for it. it's yours, from front
porch to roof top, as a gift to two of my most loyal pals.

and instantly a copy of branton hills' "post" was blowing across broadway in a
fluky july wind!

now, as this young pair was to start out frugally, it wouldn't do to lay out
too much for, as sarah said, "about forty words by a pastor, and a kiss."

so only priscilla stood up with sarah; and bill gadsby, in all his sartorial
glory, with paul, in parson brown's small study; both girls in dainty morning
clothing; sarah carrying a bunch of gay nasturtiums, claiming that such warm,
bright colorings would add as much charm to that short occasion as a thousand
dollars' worth of orchids. now, such girls as sarah, with that capacity for
finding satisfaction so simply, don't grow as abundantly as hollyhocks -- and
paul found that gadsby's old organization was a group knowing what a dollar
is: just a dollar.

occasionally a sight bobs up without warning in a city,
which starts a train of thought, sad or gay, according to how you look at it.
and so, lucy, priscilla, and virginia adams, walking along broadway, saw a
crowd around a lamp post, upon which was a patrol-box; and, though our girls
don't customarily follow up such sights, lucy saw a man's form sprawling flat
up against that post, as limp as a rag. priscilia said, in disgust:

"ugh!! it's norman antor! drunk again!!" and virginia, hastily grasping both
girls' arms and hurrying past, said:

"so!! his vacation in jail didn't do him any good! but, still, it's too bad.
norman is a

good looking, manly lad, with a good mind and a thorough schooling. and now
look at him! a common drunk!!'

priscilla was sad, too, saying: "awful! awful for so young a chap. what is
his dad doing now?"

"still in jail," was all virginia could say; adding sadly: "i do pity poor
young mary, who sold antor's liquor, you know. doris says that lots of school-
girls snub that kid. now that's not right. it's downright horrid! mary was
brought up in what you almost might call a pool of liquor. and i don't call it
fair to snub a child for that; for you know that, not only Â‘past' councilman
antor, but also madam antor, got what our boys call litup' on many public
occasions. antor's pantry was full of it! which way could that poor kid look
without finding it? you know mary is not so old as most of us; and i'm just
going to go to that child and try to bring a ray of comfort into that young
mind. that rum-guzzling antor family!! ugh!!'

* * * *

but a city also has amusing sights; and our trio ran plump into that kind,
just around a turn; for, standing on a soap box, shouting a high-sounding
jargon of rapidly shot words, was arthur rankin, an original organization lad;
a crowd of boys, a man or two, and a woman hanging laughingly around. our
trio's first inkling as to what it was all about was arthur's bail to
priscilia:

"aha! branton hills' fair womanhood is

now approaching! !"

now if our trio didn't know arthur so thoroughly, such girls might balk at
this publicity. but priscilla and arthur had had many a "slapping match" long
ago, arising from childhood's spats; priscilla originally living on an
adjoining lot, and was arthur's "first girl ;" which, according to his old
aunt anna, "was just silly puppy stuff !" so nobody thought anything of this
public hail and arthur was raving on about "which puts an instant stop to all
pain; will rid you of anything from dandruff to ingrowing nails; will build up
a strong body from a puny runt; will grow hair on a billiard-ball scalp, and
taboo it on a lady's chin; will put a glamorous gloss on tooth or nail; stop
stomach growls; oil up kinky joints, and bring you to happy, smiling clays of
utopian bliss! how many, priscilla? only a dollar a box; two for dollar-
sixty!"

priscilla, laughing, said:

"not any today, thank you, art! all i want is a pair of juicy lamb chops--a
dish of onions -- a dish of squash \-- a dish of carrots -- a pint of milk --
potato-chips -- hot biscuits -- cold slaw -- custard pudding -- nuts --
raisins --"

"whoa, priscilla! hop right up on this box! i know that word-slinging
ability of old" and as that crowd was fading away, priscilla said:

"this is odd work for you, arthur; you so good a draughtsman. what's up?"

and arthur, a happy, rollicking boy, having always had all such things as most
boys had, with a dad making good pay as a railroad conductor, told sadly of an
awful railway smash-up which took "dad" away from four small rankin orphans,
whom arthur was now supporting; and a scarcity of jobs in branton hills and of
trips to surrounding towns, always finding that old sign out: "no work today."
of this soap box opportunity bobbing up, which was now bringing in good cash.
so our girls found that our branton hills boys didn't shirk work of any kind,
if brought right up against want.

but what about branton hills' municipal affairs, right now?
in two months it was to ballot on who should sit in past-councilman antor's
chair; and a campaign was on which was actually sizzling. and in what a
contrast to our city's start! for it has grown rapidly; and, in comparison to
that day upon which a thousand ballots was a big out-pouring of popular clamor
now many politicians had city hall aspirations. and who do you think was
running for council. now? william gadsby. popularly known as bill! bill,
branton hills' famous dandy; bill, that consummation of all branton hills
girls' most romantic wish; bill, that "outdoor part" of branton hills' most
aristocratic tailor shop! naturally, opposing groups fought for that vacancy;
part of our population clamoring loudly for bill, but with many just as
strongly against him. so it was:

"put bill gadsby in!! bill has all our mayor's good points! bill will work for
all that is upright and good!"

and also:

"what! bill gadsby? is this town plumb crazy? say! if you put that fop in
city hall you'll find all its railings flapping with pink satin ribbons; a
janitor at its main door, squirting vanilia on all who go in; and its front
lawn will turn into a pansy farm! put a man in city hall, not a sissy who
thinks out Â‘upsy-downsy, insy-outsy' camping suits for girls !"

but though this didn't annoy bill, it did stir up nancy, with:

"oh! that's just an abomination! such talk about so grand a young chap! but
i just saw a billboard with a sign saying: Â‘bill gadsby for council;' so,
probably i shouldn't worry, for bill is as good as in."

"baby," said gadsby, kindly, "that's only a billboard, and billboards don't
put a man in city hall. it's ballots, darling; thousands of ballots, that
fill council chairs."

"but, daddy, i'm going to root for bill. i'll stand up on a stump, or in a
tip-cart, or --"

"whoa! wait a bit !" and gadsby sat down by his "baby girl," saying: "you
can't go on a stumping campaign without knowing a lot about municipal affairs;
which you don't. any antagonist who knows about such things would out-talk you
without half trying. no, darling, this political stuff is too big for you. you
just look out for things in that small bungalow of yours, and allow branton
hills to fight to put bill in. you know my old slogan: Â‘man at a city's
front; woman at a cabin door.'"

and nancy, fondly stroking his hand, said:

"man at a city's front! what a grand post for a man! a city, a big, rushing,
dashing, slamming, banging, boiling mass of humanity! a city; with its bright,
happy, sunny parks; and its sad, dark slums; its rich mansions and its shanty-
town shacks; its shops, inns, shows, courts, airports, railway stations,
hospitals, schools, church groups, social clubs, and, -- and, -- oh! what a
magic visualization of human thought it is! but it is as a small child. it
looks for a strong arm to support its first toddlings; for adult minds to
pilot it around many pitfalls: and onward, onward!! to a shining goal!!" and
nancy's crown of rich brown hair sank lovingly in gadsby's lap.

during this outburst gadsby had sat dumb; but finally saying, proudly:

"so, ho! my baby girl has grown up! dolls and sand-digging tools don't call,
as of old. and small, dirty paws, and a tiny smudgy chin, transform, almost in
a twinkling into charming hands and a chin of maturity. my, my! it was but a
month or two ago that you, in pig-tails and gingham --"

"no, daddy! it was a mighty long month or two ago; and it's not pig-tails
and gingham, now, but a husband and a baby."

"all right, kid; but as you grow old, you'll find that, in glancing backwards,
months look mighty short; and small tots grow up, almost in a night. a month
from now looks awfully far off: but last month? pff! that was only last
night!"

thus did nancy and his honor talk, until a vigorous honking at his curb told
of frank, "looking for a cook," for it was six o'clock.

any man with so kindly a disposition toward youth as has
brought our mayor forward in branton hills' history, may, without warning, run
across an occasion which holds an opportunity for adding a bit of joy in
living. so, as gadsby stood, on a chilly fall day, in front of that big glass
building which was built for a city florist, admiring a charming display of
blossoming plants, a small girl, still in grammar school. said, shyly:

"hulloa."

"hulloa, you. school out?"

"on saturdays, school is always out."

"that's so; it is saturday, isn't it? going in?"

"in!! my, no! i can't go into that fairyland!"

"no? why not, pray?"

"aw! i dunno; but nobody has took kids

"took? took? say, young lady, you must study your grammar book. branton hills
schools don't --"

"uh-huh; i know. but a kid just can't--"

"by golly! a kid can! grab my hand."

now, many a fairy book has told, in glowing words, of childhood's joys and
thrills at amazing sights; but no fairy book could show, in cold print,
what gadsby ran up against as that big door shut, and a child stood stock
still--and dumb! two small arms hung limply down, against a poor, oh, so
poor skirt; and two big staring brown orbs took in that vision of floral
glory, which is found in just that kind of a big glass building on a cold, raw
autumn day.

gadsby said not a word; slowly strolling down a path amidst thousands of
gladioli; around a turn, and up a path, along which stood pots and pots of
fuchsias, salvias and cannas; and to a cross-path, down which was a big flat
pansy patch, tubs of blossoming lilacs, and stiff, straight carnations. not a
word from gadsby, for his mind was on that small bunch of rapturous joy just
in front of him. but, finally, just to pry a bit into that baby mind, his
honor said:

"looks kind of good, don't it?"

a tiny form shrunk down about an inch; and an also tiny bosom, rising and
falling in a thralldom of bliss, finally put forth a long, long,--

"0-h-h-h-h!! 

it was so long that gadsby was in a quandary as to how such small lungs could
hold it.

now in watching this tot thrilling at its first visit to such a world of
floral glory, gadsby got what boys call "a hunch **;" **and said:

"you don't find blossoms in your yard this month, do you?"

if you know childhood you know that thrills don't last long without a call for
information. and gadsby got such a call, with:

"no, sir. is this god's parlor?"

now gadsby wouldn't, for anything, spoil a childish thought; so said,
kindly:

"it's part of it. god's parlor is awfully big, you know."

"my parlor is awfully small; and not any bloss -- oh! wouldn't god --?"

gadsby's hunch was now working, full tilt; and so, as this loving family man,
having had four kids of his own, and this tot from a poor family with its
"awfully small" parlor, \-- had trod this big glass building's paths again and
again; round and round, an almost monstrous sigh from an almost bursting tiny
bosom, said

"i'll think of god's parlor, always and always and always!! and gadsby, on
glancing upwards, saw a distinct drooping and curving of many stalks; which is
a plant's way of bowing to a child. and, at branton hills' following council
night a motion was-- but i said gadsby had a hunch. so, not only this
schoolgirl's awfully small parlor, but many such throughout branton hills'
poor districts, soon found a "big girl" from gadsby's original organization of
youth at its front door with plants from that big glass building, in which our
city florist works in god's parlor. (p.s. go with a child to your city
florist's big glass building. it's a duty!)

i am now going back to my saying that a city has all kinds
of goings-on; both sad and gay. so, as his honor sat on his porch on a warm
spring day, a paragraph in branton hills' "post" brought forth such a vigorous
"huh!" that lady gadsby was curious, asking: "what is it?"

so gadsby said: "what do you think of this? it says: Â‘in a wild swaying
dash down broadway last night at midnight, past--councilman antors car hit a
hydrant, killing him and madam antor instantly. highway patrolman harry grant,
who was chasing that car in from our suburbs, says both horribly drunk, antor
grazing four cars, madam shouting and singing wildly, with grant arriving
too tardily - to ward off that final crash,"

now lady gadsby was, first of all, a woman; and so got up quickly-, saying:

"oh!! i must go down to poor young mary, right off" and gadsby sat tapping
his foot, saying:-

"so antor's pantry probably still holds that stuff. too bad. but, oh, that
darling mary! just got into high school! not long ago lucy told us of girls
snubbing that kid; but i trust that, from this horror, our branton hills girls
will turn from snubbing to pity. this account says that madam antor also was
drunk. a woman drunk!! and riding with a rum-sot man at a car's controls!
woman! from history's dawn, man's soft, fond, loving pal! woman! for whom
wars of blood and agony cut man down as you would mow a lawn! woman! to whom
infancy and childhood look for all that is upright and good! it's too bad; too
bad !"

as in all such affairs you will always find two factions talking. taking about
what? just now, about norman antor. what would this wiping out of his folks
do to him? norman was now living with mary and two aunts who, coming from out
of town, would try to plan for our two orphans; try to plan for norman;
norman, brought up in a pool of liquor! norman: tall, dark and manly and with
a most ingratiating disposition if not drunk. but nobody could say. a group
would claim that "this fatality will bring him out of it;'' but his
antagonists thought that "that guy will always drink."

a day or two from that crash, nancy, coming into gadsby's parlor, found lucy
talking with lady gadsby, lucy asking:

"nancy, who is with young mary ardor now? that pair of aunts wouldn't stay,
with all that liquor around."

"i just found out," said nancy. "mary is living with old lady flanagan" and
lucy, though sad, had to laugh just a bit, saying:

"ha, ha! old lady flanagan! what a circus i had trying to pry a zoo donation
from that poor soul's skimpy funds! but, nancy, mary is in mighty good hands.
that loving old irish lady is a trump!"

along in april, gadsby sat finishing his morning toast as a
boy, rushing in, put a "post" on his lap with a wild, boyish gasp of:

"my gosh, mayor gadsby, look!!" and gadsby saw a word about a foot high.
it was w -- a - r. lady gadsby saw it also, slowly sinking into a chair. at
that instant both nancy and kathlyn burst frantically in, nancy lugging baby
lillian, now almost two, and a big load for so small a woman, nancy gasping
out:-

"daddy!! must bill and julius and frank and john, --"

gadsby put down his "post" and, pulling nancy down onto his lap, said:

"nancy darling, bill and julius and frank and john must. old glory is calling,
baby, and no branton hills boy will balk at that call. it's awful, but it's
a fact, now."

lady gadsby said nothing, but nancy and kathlyn saw an ashy pallor on that
matronly brow; and gadsby going out without waiting for his customary kiss.

for what you might call an instant, branton hills, in blank, black gloom,
stood stock still. but not for long. days got to flashing past, with that
awful sight of girls, out to lunch, saying:

"four from our shop; and that big cotton mill has forty-six who will go,"

with virginia saying:

"about all that our boys talk about is uniforms, pay, transportation, army
corps, divisions, naval squadrons, and so on."

an occasional branton hills politician thought that it "might blow out in a
month or two;" but your historian knows that it didn't; all of that "blowing"
consisting of blasts from that military clarion, calling for mobilization.

* * *

days! days! days! finally, on may fourth, that day of tiny nancy's big church
ritual, you know; that day, upon which any woman would look back with romantic
joy, nancy, with kathlyn, lady gadsby and his honor, stood at branton hills'
big railway station, at which our municipal band was drawn up; in back of
which stood, in solid ranks, this city's grand young manhood, bill, julius,
frank, john, paul and norman standing just as straight and rigid as any. as
that long, long troop train got its signal to start, - but you know all about
such sights, going on daily, from our pacific coast to atlantic docks.

as it shot around a turn, and gadsby was walking sadly toward city hall, a
grammar school boy hurrying up to him said:-

"wow!! i wish i could go to war!"

"hi!" said gadsby. "if it isn't kid banks!"

"aw! cut that kid stuff! i'm allan banks! son of councilman banks!"

"oh, pardon. but you don't want to go to war, boy."

"aw! i do too!!"

"but young boys can't go to war."

"i know that; and i wish this will last until i grow so i can go. it's just
grand! a big cannon says boom! boom! and,--"

"sit down on this wall, boy. i want to talk to you."

"all right. shoot!"

"now look, allan. if this war should last until you grow up, just think of how
many thousands of troops it would kill. how many grand. good lads it would
put right out of this world."

"gosh! that's so, ain't it! i didn't think of guys dyin'."

"but a man has to think of that, allan. and you will, as you grow up. my
two big sons just put off on that big troop train. i don't know how long
bill and julius will stay away. your big cannon might go boom! and hit bill
or julius. do you know frank morgan, paul johnson and john smith? all right;
that big cannon might hit that trio, too. nobody can say who a cannon will
hit, allan. now, you go right on through grammar school, and grow up into a
big strong man, and don't think about war ;" and gadsby, standing and gazing
far off to branton hills' charming hill district, thought: "i think that
will bust up a wild young ambition!"

but that kid, turning back, sang out:-

"say!! if this scrap stops, and a big war starts,--aha, boy! you just
watch allan banks! son of councilman banks! !" and a small fist was pounding
viciously on an also small bosom.

"by golly !" said gadsby, walking away, "that's tomorrow talking!"

* * *

so now this history will drift along; along through days and months; days and
months of that awful gnawing doubt; actually a paradox, for it was a
"conscious coma ;" mornings on which branton hills' icy blood shrank from
looking at our city's "post," for its casualty list was rapidly--too rapidly,
--growing. days and days of our girlhood and womanhood rolling thousands of
long, narrow cotton strips; packing loving gifts from many a pantry; nancy and
kathlyn thinking constantly of frank and john; lucy almost down and out from
worrying about paul; kathlyn knowing just how julius is missing his hall of
natural history, and how its staff is praying for him; nancy's radio shut down
tight, for so much as a thought of station kbh was as a thrust of a sword.
days. days. days of shouting orators, blaring bands, troops from far away
pausing at our big railway station, as girls, going through long trains of
cars, took doughnuts and hot drinks. in gadsby's parlor window hung that
famous "world war flag" of nothing but stars; nobody knowing at what instant a
gold star would show upon it. a star for bill; a star for julius. ah, bill!
branton hills' fop! bill gadsby now in an ill-fitting and un-stylish khaki
uniform.

gadby's mansion had no brilliant night lights, now; just his parlor lamp and a
small light or two in hallways or on stairways. only our mayor and his lady,
now worrying, worrying, worrying; but both of good, staunch old colonial
stock; and "carrying on" with good old plymouth rock stability; and nancy's
baby, lillian, too young to ask why grandma "wasn't hungry," now; and didn't
laugh so much.

kathlyn got into our big hospital, this studious young lady's famous
biological and microscopic ability holding out an opportunity for most
practical work; for branton hills' shot-torn boys would soon start drifting
in. and thus it was; with lucy, sarah and virginia inspiring branton hills'
womanhood to knit, knit, knit! you saw knitting on many a porch; knitting in
railway trains; knitting during band music in city park; knitting in shady
arbors out at our big zoo; at many a woman's club, -- and, -- actually,
knitting in church!! finally a big factory, down by our railway station,
put out a call for "anybody, man or woman, who wants to work on munitions ;"
and many a dainty branton hills girl sat at big, unfamiliar stamping,
punching, grinding, or polishing outfits; tiring frail young backs and
straining soft young hands; knowing that this factory's output might \-- and
probably would, --rob a woman across that big atlantic of a husband or son ,--
but, still, it is war!

gadsby, smoking on his ivy-clad porch, as his lady- was industriously
knitting, said, in a sort of soliloquy:

"war! that awful condition which a famous military man in command of a
division, long ago, said was synonymous with satan and all his cohorts! war!
that awful condition of human minds coming down from way, way back of all
history; that vast void during which sympathy was not known; during which
animals fought with tooth, claw or horn; that vast void during which wounds
had no soothing balm, until thirst, agony or a final swoon laid low a gigantic
mammoth, or a tiny, gasping fawn! but now, again, in this grand day of man's
magically growing brain, this day of kindly crooning to infants in cribs;
kindly talks to boys and girls in school; and blood-tingling orations from
thousands of pulpits upon that holy command: Â‘thou shalt not kill,' now,
again, man is out to kill his own kind." and lady gadsby could only sigh.

as this story has shown, youth, if adults will only admit
that it has any brains at all, will stand out, today, in a most promising
light. philosophically, youth is wisdom in formation, and with many thoughts
startling to adult minds; and, industrially, this vast world's coining
stability is now, today, in its bands; growing slowly, as a blossom grows
from its bud. if you will furnish him with a thorough schooling, you can plank
down your dollar that youth, starting out from this miraculous day, will not
lag nor shirk on that coming day in which old joints, rusty and crackling,
must slow down; and, calling for an oil can, you will find that youth only,
is that lubrication which can run tomorrow's world. but youth must not go
thinking that all its plans will turn out all right; and young marian hopkins
found this out. marian, you know, took part in our airport initiation. but
marian, only a kid at that day, has grown up--or half-way up, anyway, and just
graduating from grammar school; upon which big day a child "knows" as much as
any famous savant of antiquity! but, as this story runs in skips and jumps,
strict chronological continuity is not a possibility. so, marian is now half
grown up. now that big airport, as you also know, was just back of marian's
back yard; and as that yard was much too big for anything that marian's dad
could do with it, it was put up for disposal. but nobody would go to look at
it; to say nothing of buying it. but old bill simpkins, past antagonist of
gadsby's organization of youth, did go out to look at it; but said, with his
customary growl

"too many aircraft always roaring and zooming. too far out of town. and you
ask too much for it, anyway.

but marian thought that branton hills, as a municipality, should own it;
figuring that that airport would grow, and that yard was practically a part of
it, anyway. so marian, going to his honor, as about anybody in town did,
without an instant's dallying, "told him," (!) what his council should do.

"but," said gadsby, "what a city council should do, and what it will do,
don't always match up.

"can't i go and talk to it?"

"what! to our council? no; that is, not as a body. but if you can run across
a councilman out of city hall you can say what you wish. a councilman is just
an ordinary man, you know." but a councilman out of city hall was a hard man
to find; and a child couldn't go to a man's mansion to "talk him around." but,
by grand luck, in a month or so, marian did find, and win, all but simpkins.

on council night, simpkins took up a good, -- or i should say, bad -- half
hour against branton hills "buying any old dump or scrap land that is.

what this city put up. was coming to?" and so on, and so on. and marian's back
yard wasn't bought. now youth is all right if you rub its fur in a way which
suits it; but, man!! hold on to your hat, if you don't!! and marian's fur was
all lumpy. boy! was that kid mad!!

now, just by luck, march thirty-first, coming along as days do, you know,
found marian in front of a toy shop window, in which, way down front, was a
box of cigars, with a card saying:

"this brand will start his blood tingling." and marian, as boys say, was "on"
in an instant; and bought a cigar. not a box, not a bunch, but just a cigar.
coming out marian saw his honor and simpkins passing; simpkins saying:-

"all right. i'll drop around, tonight." and was marian happy? wait a bit.

that night as gadsby and simpkins sat talking in his honor's parlor, who
would, "just by luck," (??) walk in, but marian; saying, oh, so shyly:

"just thought i'd drop in to chat with nancy," and, on passing a couch, slyly
laid that cigar on it. now simpkins, in addition to his famous grouch, was a
parsimonious old crab; who, though drawing good pay as councilman, couldn't
pass up anything that cost nothing; and, in gazing around, saw that cigar;
and, with a big apologizing yawn, and slinking onto that couch as a cat slinks
up on a bird, and, oh, so nonchalantly lighting a match, was soon puffing
away and raving about branton hills politics. out in a back parlor sat marian
and nancy on a big divan, hugging tightly up, arm in arm, and almost
suffocating from holding back youthful anticipations, as simpkins said:

" Ã„ and that hopkins back yard stunt! ridiculous! why, his kid was out, trying
to find all of our council to talk it into buying. bah! and did i block it?
i'll say i did! you don't find kids today laughing at councilman simpkins."

an actual spasm of giggling in that back parlor had gadsby looking around,
inquiringly.

"no, sir!" simpkins said. "no kid can fool coun--"

bang!!

gadsby, jumping up saw only a frazzly cigar stump in old bill's mouth, as
that palpitating individual was vigorously brushing off falling sparks as his
honor's rugs got a rain of tobacco scraps! gadsby was "on" in an instant,
noticing marian and nancy rolling and tumbling around on that big divan, and
doubling up in a giggling fit, way out of control. finally simpkins angrily
got up, viciously jamming on his tall silk hat; and marian, fighting that
giggling fit, just had to call out:

"april fool, councilman simpkins!"

(and mayor gadsby, on a following council night, got marian's land bill
through; many a councilman holding his hand in front of his grinning mouth, in
voting for bright, vitalic youth.)

widow adams was sitting up again, for it was way past
midnight, and virginia was out. many months ago virginia was also out, and was
brought back, unconscious. so now nina was again sitting up, for virginia was
not a night-owl sort of a girl. finally, around two o'clock, nina couldn't
stand it, and had to call in a passing patrolman. now this patrolman was an
original organization of youth boy, and had always known nina and virgina; and
said:

"oh, now! i wouldn't worry so. possibly a bus had a blowout; or--"

"but virginia said nothing about going on a bus! oh!! how could that
child vanish so?"

naturally, all that that patrolman could do was to call his station; and nina,
almost all in, lay down, until, just about dawn a jangling ringing brought
this half wild woman to a front hall, shouting:

"this is nina adams talking! who? what? virginia, is that you? what's wrong?
what! you and harold thompson? our aviator? you did what? took his aircraft to
what city? Â‘why, that's so far you can't --" but virginia had hung up.

so nina also hung up, and sat down with a big, long sigh:-

"my virginia, not running away, but flying away, to marry! oh, this youth of
today!"

* * *

around six o'clock that night, virginia and harold stood arm in arm in nina's
parlor, as a big bus was groaning noisily away.

"but, mama," said virginia, sobbing pitifully, "i didn't think you would--"

"that's just it, virginia, you didn't think!! but you should! how could i
know what was going on? that's just you young folks of today. you think of
nothing but your own silly, foolish doings, and you allow us old good-for-
nothings to go crazy with worry!!" and nina sank in a gasping swoon onto a
sofa.

but old doc wilkins, arriving at virginia's frantic call, knowing nina's iron
constitution from childhood, soon had that limp form back to normal; and, with
a dark, disapproving scowl at virginia. said:

"bring in a good batch of hot food, and your ma will turn out all right," and
going out, with a snort of disgust, and banging viciously that big front door!

awful tidings in our branton hills' "post," had so wrought
up our ordinarily happy, laughing sarah, who, with paul abroad, was back,
living again with old tom young, that sarah, sitting on a low stool by old
tom's rocking chair was so still that tom put down his "post," saying:

"gift of gab all run out, kid?"

but sarah had an odd, thoughtful look. sarah's bosom was rising and falling
abnormally; but, finally, looking quickly up at old tom, sarah said:

"daddy, i want to go to war.

"do what?" if sarah had said anything about jumping out of a balloon, or of
buying a gorilla to play with, tom young wouldn't know any such astounding
doubt as brought his rocking chair to a quick standstill.

"war? what kind of talk is this? a girl going to war? what for? how? say!!
who put this crazy stunt into your brain, anyway?"

as you know, sarah was not only charming in ways, but also in build; and, with
that glorious crown of brownish-gold hair, that always smiling mouth and that
soft, plump girlishly-girlish form, no man, tom young nor anybody, could think
of sarah and war in a solitary thought. so sarah said, softly:

"last night, our night school trio thought that our boys, so far away, must
miss us, and branton hills sights; and doris said, Â‘branton hills sounds.' and
so, why couldn't our trio join that big group of musicians which is sailing
soon? and, daddy, you know paul is in that army. i don't know that i could
find him, but- but- but i want to try. and kathlyn is talking of going as
biologist with a big hospital unit; so possibly i could stay with it."

tom young was dumb! his "post" actually had told of such a musical outfit
about to sail; but it was a man's organization. so, now it has got around to
this! our girls, our dainty, loving girls, brimful of both sympathy and
patriotism, wanting to go into that tough, laborious work of singing in army
camps; in huts ; in hospitals; singing from trucks rolling along country roads
along which sat platoons and battalions of troops, waiting for word which
might bring to this or that boy his last long gun-toting tramp. singing in--
"aw, darling! your trio was fooling, wasn't it? now, girls don't --"

"daddy, girls do! so, if our folks don't put up too much of a--"

"aha."! now you said a mouthful; if your folks don't! darling, i'll say
just two words as my part in this crazy stunt: Â‘nothing doing'!! kathlyn's
work is mighty important; singing isn't."

sarah had not grown up from infancy in kindly tom's cabin without knowing that
his no was a "no!!" and not a flimsy, hollow word which a whining, or a
sniffling, or a bawling child could switch around into: "oh, all right, if you
want to." so sarah still sat on that low stool; or, to turn it around almost
backwards,-- sarah sat on that stool, --still. so still that tom's old tin
clock on its wall hooks was soon dominating that small room with its rhythmic
ticking, as a conductor's baton controls a brass band's pianissimos. finally
sarah said softly, slowly, sadly and with a big, big sigh:-

"i did so want to go." and that small clock was ticking, ticking, ticking.

for a full hour sarah and old tom sat talking and rocking, until sarah,
phoning to doris, said: "my dad says no.

and doris, phoning back to sarah, said: "so did my dad."

and, as virginia adams was that trio's third part; and as sarah and doris had
always known nina adams' strong will; and as,--oh, hum! it was a happy
fascination until adult minds got hold of it!

gadsby was walking back from a visit down in branton hills'
manufacturing district on a saturday night. a busy day's traffic had had its
noisy run; and with not many folks in sight, his honor got along without
having to stop to grasp a hand, or talk; for a mayor out of city hall is a
shining mark for any politician. and so, coming to broadway, a booming bass
drum and sounds of singing, told of a small salvation army unit carrying on
amidst broadway's night shopping crowds. gadsby, walking toward that group,
saw a young girl, back towards him, just finishing a long, soulful oration,
saying :-

" ... and i can say this to you, for i know what i am talking about; for i was
brought up in  a pool of liquor!!" 

as that army group was starting to march on, with this girl turning towards
gadsby, his honor had to gasp, astonishingly:

"why! mary antor!!"

"oh! if it isn't mayor gadsby! i don't run across you much, now-a-days. how is
lady gadsby holding up during this awful war?"

all such family gossip passing quickly, gadsby said:-

"but this salvation army work, mary? how long --"

mary and his honor had to walk along, as that big drum was now pounding a
block away. during that walk gadsby found out all about that vast void in
mary's bungalow following that fatal auto crash; and all about "two old maid
aunts" as mary said, who had all that pantry's liquor thrown down a drain and
got cut, also, a day or two following; all about living now at old lady
flanagan's.

" ...for i just couldn't stay in that bungalow, with nobody around, you
know." and all about loving companionship in that grand old lady's arms; and
of mary's finding that flanagan, who got such a wallop from antor's killing,
wasn't drinking so much, now which put it into mary's mind that many a man
would, with kindly coaching, turn from it.

"and i think that my nightly talks against liquor, hit; and hit hard, too;
for almost nightly a poor down-and-out will follow along with our band,
promising to cut it out and go straight. oh, why didn't i try to stop
norman' s drinking?"

"probably," said gadsby, "you did, in your girlish way; but you know boys
don't think that small girls know anything. i'd put up any amount that norman,
in that far-away camp, is thinking of you, constantly."

"oh-h-h-h! if i could only know that i" and a look of almost sanctity, and a
big, long-drawn sigh told what a turmoil was going on in this young girl's
mind. "but i'm going on, and on and on with this night talking until norman is
back again. possibly a plan will turn up toward both of us living down our
past, -- and our sorrow." and gadsby, slowly plodding along towards his dimly
lit mansion, thought of a slight transposition of that scriptural quotation:
"and your sins, you adults, shall fall upon your offspring, unto your third
and fourth--"

"oh, if a man would only think of his offspring having to carry on, long past
his last day! and of how hard it is for a boy or girl to stand up and proudly
(?) claim that so-and-so Â‘was my dad,' if all branton hills knows of that
dad's inglorious past. poor kids!" for you know that gadsby said, in this
story's start, that "a man should so carry on his daily affairs as to bring no
word of admonition from anybody;" for a man's doings should put a stain upon
no soul but his own.

but, aha!! as his honor got to his parlor, his sad mind found a happy,
smiling lady awaiting him; crying joyously:

"look! look, john! word from william! from bill, in paris !"

bill's first communication said:

"darling folks: julius and i just got into this town from a month of hard
marching, ditch-digging and fighting. i am all right, and so is julius. ran
across frank, who is on duty at our commissary. lucky guy! lots of food always
around! paul is growing fat. looks mighty good. oh, how all of us do miss you
and good old branton hills! i can't find a solitary suit in this town that i
would put on to go to a dog fight! such fashion!" and so on; just a natural
outpouring from a boy, away on his first trip from his dad's kindly roof.

"ha, ha!" said gadsby, laughing jovially; "that's our bill, all right! always
thinking of dolling up!" and lady gadsby, rising quickly, said:

"oh, i must call up nancy, kathlyn and sarah!" and, in a trio of small
bungalows, joy, wild joy, found its way into girlish minds!

as gadsby sat, going through this good word again and again, a mirthful
chuckling had lady gadsby asking:

"what's so funny about it ?"

"nothing; only if i didn't know that frank is such a grand, good lad, i'd
think bill was hiding a bit from us; for that Â‘on duty at commissary' might
amount only to potato paring!"

priscilla standish was waiting at our big railroad station,
on a warm spring day, for a train to pull out, so that cross-track traffic
could start again. it was just an ordinary train such as stop hourly at
branton hills, but priscilla saw that a group was hurrying toward a
combination-car, way up forward. now priscilla was not a girl who found morbid
curiosity in any such a public spot; but, still, an odd, uncanny sort of
thrill,--almost a chill, in fact,--was urging, urging a slow walk toward that
car. just why, priscilla didn't know; but such things do occur in a human
mind. so priscilla soon was standing on a trunk truck, gazing down into that
group which now was slowly moving back, forming room for taking out a young
man in khaki uniform, on a hospital cot. with a gasp of horror, priscilla
was instantly down from that truck, pushing through that group, and crying
out, wildly:-

"arthur! arthur rankin! oh! oh! what is it, darling?" and looking up at a
hospital assistant, "is it bad?"

"don't know, right now, lady," said that snowy clad official. "unconscious.
but our big hospital will do all it can for him."

arthur rankin! arthur, with whom priscilla had had many a childhood spat!
arthur who had shown that "puppy stuff" for priscilla, that his old aunt was
always so disapprovingly sniffing at! and now, unconscious on a, --

with a murmuring of sympathy from that sorrowing public, now dissolving, as
all crowds do, priscilla had a quick, comforting thought: "kathlyn is working
at that hospital!"

kathlyn had known arthur as long as priscilla had; and kathlyn's famous
ability would --

so our panting and worrying girl was hurrying along through broadway's turning
and inquiring crowds to that big hospital which our organization of youth had
had built. and now arthur was going, for not long, possibly, but, still
possibly for --

* * *

it was midnight in that big still building. old doctor wilkins stood by
arthur's cot; priscilla, sobbing pitifully, was waiting in a corridor, with
lady standish giving what comfort a woman could. lady standish, who took in
dogs, cats, rabbits or any living thing that was hurt, sick or lost; lady
standish, donor of four thousand dollars for our big zoo; lady standish,
kindly savior of clancy's and dowd's "big four," now waiting, without ability
to aid a human animal. finally, doctor wilkins, coming out, said:

"kathlyn says no sign of blood contamination, but vitality low; badly low;
sinking, i think. railroad trip almost too much for him. looks bad."

but, at this instant, an assistant, calling wilkins, said arthur was coming
out of his coma; and was murmuring "about a woman known as priscilla. do you
know anybody by--?"

with a racking sob, priscilla shot through that door, lady standish quickly
following. arthur, picking up, a bit, from priscilla's soft, oh, so soft and
loving crooning and patting, took that fond hand and--sank back! doctor
wilkins, looking knowingly at priscilla, said:

"if it is as i think, you two had had thoughts of --"

a vigorous nod from priscilla, and an approving look from lady standish, and
doctor wilkins said:

"hm-m-m! it should occur right now! or, \--"

as quick as a flash that snowy-clad assistant was phoning; and, astonishingly
soon, our good pastor brown stood by that cot; and, with arthur in a most
surprising pick-up, holding priscilla's hot, shaking hand, through that still
hospital room was wafting priscilla's soft, low words:

"...you for my lawful husband, until..."

* * *

doctor wilkins, going out with priscilla, now trying, oh, so hard for
control; with grand, charming, loving kathlyn, arm in arm, said:

"that joy will pull him through. boys, at war, so far away, will naturally
droop, both in body and mind, from lack of a particular girl's snuggling and
cuddling. so just wait until kathlyn finds out all about his condition; and
good food, with this happy culmination of a childhood infatuation, will put
him in first-class condition, if no complications show up.

ah! what an important part of a city's institutions a hospital is! what a
comfort to all, to know that, should injury or any ailing condition of man,
woman or child occur without warning, anybody can, simply through phoning find
quick transportation at his door; and, with angrily clanging gongs, or high-
pitch whistlings obtaining a "right of way" through all traffic, that
institution's doors will swing apart, assistants will quickly surround that
cot, and an ability for doing anything that man can do is at hand. you know,
almost daily, of capitalists of philanthropic mold, donating vast sums to a
town or an association; but, in your historian's mind, no donation can do so
much good as that which builds, or maintains hospitalization for all. a
library, a school, a boys' or girls' club, a vacation facility, a "chair" of
this or that in an institution of instruction,-- all do much to build up a
community. both doctoring as a study for a young man, and nursing for a girl
form most important parts of mankind's activity.

and so, just four months from that awful, but also happy day, arthur
rankin sat in a hammock with priscilla, on lady standish's porch, with four
small rankins playing around; or was walking around that back yard full of
cats, dogs, rabbits, and so on, with no thought of soap box orations in his
mind.

on a grand autumn morning branton hills' "post" boys ran
shouting down broadway, showing in half-foot wording:

"fighting stops!! history's most disastrous war is history now!!!" and again,
branton hills stood stock still. but only for an instant; for soon, it was, in
all minds:-

"thank god!! oh, ring your loud church clarions! blow your factory blasts!
shout! cry! sing! play, you bands! burst your drums! crack your cymbals!"

ah, what a sight on broadway! shop girls pouring out! shop janitors boarding
up big glass windows against a surging mob! and, (sh-h-h-h) many a church
having in its still sanctity a woman or girl at its altar rail.

months, months, months! branton hills was again at its big railroad station,
its municipal band playing our grand national air, as a long troop train, a
solid mass of bunting, was snorting noisily in. and, amidst that outpouring
flood of branton hills boys, lady gadsby, nancy, kathlyn and his honor found
bill, julius, frank and john. sarah was just "going all apart" in paul's arms,
with virginia swooning in harold's.

on old lady flanagan's porch sat mary antor; for, having had no word from
norman for months, this grand young salvation army lass was in sad, sad doubt.
but soon, as that shouting mob was drifting away, and happy family groups
walking citywards, a khaki-clad lad, hurrying to old lady flanagan's cabin,
and jumping that low, ivy-clad wall, had mary, sobbing and laughing, in his
arms. no. it wasn't norman.

a crowd was** **standing around in city park, for a baby
was missing. patrol cars roaring around branton hills; many a woman hunting
around through sympathy; kidnapping rumors flying around. his honor was out of
town; but on landing at our railroad station, and finding patrol cars drawn up
at city park, saw, in that crowd's midst, a tiny girl, of about six, with a
bunch of big shouting officials, asking:-

"who took that baby?"

"did you do it?"

"which way did it go?"

"how long ago did you miss it?" "say, kiddo!! why don't you talk?"

an adult brain can stand a lot of such shouting, but a baby's is not in that
class; so, totally dumb, and shaking with fright, this tot stood, thumb in
mouth, and two big brown baby orbs just starting to grow moist, as his honor,
pushing in, said:-

"wait a bit!!" and that bunch in uniform, knowing him, got up and gadsby sat
down on a rock, saying:-

"you can't find out a thing from a young child by such hard, gruff ways.
this tiny lady is almost in a slump. now, just start this crowd moving. i know
a bit about youth."

"that's right," said a big, husky patrolman. "if anybody living knows kids,
it's you, sir."

so, as things got around to normal, his honor, now sitting flat on city park's
smooth lawn, said, jovially:-

"hulloa"

a big gulping sob in a tiny bosom--didn't gulp; and a grin ran around a small
mouth, as our young lady said:-

"so many big cops! o-o-o! i got afraid !"

"i know, darling; but no big cops will shout at you now. i don't shout at
tiny girls, do i?"

"no, sir; but if folks do shout, i go all woozy."

"woozy? woozy? ha, ha! i'll look that up in a big book. but what's all this
fuss about? is it about a baby?"

a vigorous nodding of a bunch of brown curls.

"what? fussing about a baby? a baby is too small to fuss about."

"o-o-o-o! it isn't!!"

"no?"

"no, sir. i fuss about my dolly, an' it's not half so big as a baby."

"that's so. girls do fuss about dolls. my girls did."

"how many dolls has your girls got?"

"ha, ha! not any, now. my girls all got

grown up and big."

during this calm, happy talk, a patrolman, coming up, said:-

"shall i stick around, your honor? any kidnapping facts?"

"i don't know, just now. wait around about an hour, and drop in again."

so his honor, mayor of branton hills, and childhood sat on that grassy lawn; a
tiny tot making daisy chains, grass rings, and thrilling at gadsby's story of
how a boy, known as jack, had to climb a big, big tall stalk to kill an
awfully ugly giant. finally gadsby said:-

"i thought you had a baby playing with you."

"i did."

"huh, it isn't playing now. did it fly away?"

"oho! no! a baby can't fly!"

"no. that's right. but how could a baby go away from you without your
knowing it?"

"it didn't. i did know it."

now, many may think that his honor would thrill at this information; but
gadsby didn't. so, "playing around" for a bit, his honor finally said:

"i wish i had a baby to play with, right now!"

"you can."

"can i? how?"

with a tiny hand on baby lips, our small lady said:-

"go look in that lilac arbor; but go soft!  i think it's snoozing."

and gadsby, going to that arbor, got a frightful shock; for it was lillian,
nancy's baby! not having known of this "kidnapping" as his family couldn't
find him by phoning, it was a shock; for his honor was thinking of that
young woman collapsing. so, upon that patrolman coming back, as told, gadsby
said:-

"go and call up your station, quickly! say that i want your captain to
notify my folks that lillian is all right."

"good gosh, your honor!! is this tot your grandchild?"

"grandchild or no grandchild, you dash to that box!!"

and so, again, john gadsby, champion of youth, had shown officialdom that a
child's brain and that of an adult vary as do a gigantic oak and its tiny
acorn.

most of gadsby's old organization of youth was still in
town, though, as you know, grown up. so, on a spring day, all of its forty
boys and as many girls got most mystifying cards, saying:

"kindly go to lilac hill on may sixth, at four o'clock. important! important!
important" that was all. not a word to show its origin. no handwriting. just a
small, plain card in ordinary printing.

not only that old organization, but his honor, lady gadsby, old tom young, tom
donaldson, nina adams, lady standish and old lady flanagan got that odd card.

"arrah ! phwat's this, anny way ?" ****sang out that good old lady. "is it
court summons, a picnic, or a land auction? by gorry, it looks phony!"

old tom young, in his rocking chair, said:-

"a card to go to lilac hill. it says Â‘important.' ah! this youth of today!
i'll put up a dollar that i can sniff a rat in this. but my girl is all right
so i'll go."

and so it was, all around town. nobody could fathom it.

lilac hill was as charming a spot as any that our big city park could boast.
though known as a hill, it was but a slight knoll with surroundings of lilac
shrubs, which, in may would always show a riot of bloom; this knoll sloping
down to a pond, with islands, boats and aquatic plants. lilac hill had known
many a picnic and similar outings; for branton hills folks, living for six
days amidst bricks and asphalt, just had to go out on sundays to this dainty
knoll, living for an hour or so amongst its birds, blossoms and calm
surroundings. city traffic was far away, only a faint rumbling coming to this
natural sanctuary; and many a mind. and many a worn body had found a balm in
its charms.

but that mystifying card! from whom was it? what was it? why** **was it?
"oh, hum! why rack brains by digging into it?" ****was branton hills' popular
thought. "but, \- go and find out!" that, also, was our organization's thought
as may sixth was approaching.

"my gracious!" said nancy. "it sounds actually spooky!"

but calm, practical kathlyn said:-

"spooks don't hop around in daylight."

may sixth had just that warm and balmy air that allows girls to put on flimsy,
dainty things, and youths to don sports outfits; and his honor, as that
mystifying day was not far off, said:

"this, i think, is a trick by a kid or two, to show us old ducks that an
Â‘incog' can hold out, right up to its actual consummation. i don't know a
thing about what's going on; but, by golly! i'll show up; and if any fun is
afloat, i'll join in, full blast."

but!! **\-- **as our organization boys and girls, and branton hills folks
got to lilac hill, not a thing was found giving any indication that
anything out of ordinary was to occur! just that calm, charming knoll, with
its lilacs, oaks, and happy vista out across branton hills' hill districts!
what 's this, anyway? a hoax? but all sat down, talking in a big group,
until, at just four o'clock,-- look! a stir, out back of that island boat
landing! what? on that pond? this card said lilac hill! but i said that a
stir was occurring in back of that boat landing, with its small shack for
storing oars and such. if our big crowd was laughing and talking up to now, it
quit! and quit mighty quickly, too! if you want to hold a crowd, just mystify
it. old lady flanagan was starting to shout about "this phony stuff," but old
man flanagan said:-

"shut up! you ain't part of this show!"

nancy was actually hopping up and down, but kathlyn stood calmly watching; for
this studious girl, way up in an "ology" or two, knows that, by slow,
thoughtful watching, you can gain much, as against working up a wild, panicky
condition.

lady gadsby said again and again: "what is going on ?" but nina adams said:
"you ought to know that today, anything can--"

but look again!! from in back of that boat landing, a big fairy float is
coming! slowly,-- slowly--slowly; a cabin amidships, just dripping with
lilacs, as still and noncommittal as old gibraltar. slowly, on and on it is
coming; finally stopping right at that spot upon which our group is standing;
forty boys, forty girls, and a big mob, all as still as a church. what is
it, anyway? is anybody in it? not a sign of it. but wait! aha! it has an
occupant, for, coming out of that lilac glory is - parson brown!! parson
brown? what was parson brown in that cabin for? aha!! a lilac spray is
moving; and, as our groups stand stock still, look! lucy donaldson is coming
out! oh! what a vision of girlish joy and glory!! and--and--and, ah! that
lilac spray is moving again! hulloa! bill gadsby is coming out!!

a spring sun was slowly approaching its horizonward droop, shooting rays of
gold down onto our gasping crowd, as parson brown said:-

"william gadsby, do you ...?"

william, but shortly back from abroad, you know, standing with grand, military
rigidity, said:

"i do."

"and lucy donaldson, do you Ã„?"

it didn't last long. just a word or two; a burst of music of a famous march by
john smith, branton hills' organist, in that cabin with a small piano; just
a-- but that crowd couldn't wait for that! with a whoop his honor sprang into
that pond, wading swiftly to board that fairy craft; and in an instant nancy
was following him, splashing frantically along, and scrambling aboard to
almost floor bill with a gigantic hug as his honor shook bill's hand, with a
loving arm about lucy. old lady flanagan was shouting wildly:- "whoops!
whoops! by gorra! this young gang of today is a smart boonch!" ** **and his
honor said:-

"ha, ha! i didn't know a thing about this! bill's a smart chap!" and old tom
donaldson, grabbing happy, laughing, blushing, palpitating lucy as soon as
that young lady was on dry land, said:

"say! you sly young chick! why didn't you notify your old dad?"

"why, daddy! that would spoil all my fun!!"

gadsby, clancy and** **dowd "just had" to, according to
unanimous opinion, go out to lady standish's suburban plot of ground to visit
"big four;**" **gadsby, owing to an inborn liking for all animals; clancy and
dowd from fond association with this particular group. it was a glorious spot;
high, rolling land, with a patch of cool, shady woods, and a grand vista
across hill and plain, with shining ponds and rich farm lands. and did "big
four" know clancy and dowd? i'll say so! and soon, with much happy whinnying
and "acting up**," **with two big roans poking inquiring snouts in clancy's
hands, and two big blacks snuggling gadsby and dowd, as happy a group of man
and animals as you could wish for, was soon accompanying lady standish around
that vast patch.

anything that such animals could want was at hand. a bright, sparkling brook
was gabbling and gurgling through a stony gully, or dropping, with many
brilliant rainbows, down a tiny fall.

"sally," said gadsby, "you do a grand work in maintaining this spot. if
mankind, as a body, would only think as you do, that an animal has a brain,
and knows good living conditions, you wouldn't find so many poor, scraggly old
dobbins plodding around our towns, dragging a cart far too big; and with a man
totally without sympathy on it."

and lady standish said:

"i just can't think of anybody abusing an animal; nor of allowing it to stay
around, sick, hurt or hungry. i think that an animal is but a point short of
human; and, having a skin varying but slightly from our own, will know as much
pain from a whipping as would a human child. a blow upon any animal, if i am
within sight, is almost as a blow upon my own body. you would think that, with
that vast gap which mankind is continually placing back of him in his onward
march in improving this big world, man would think, a bit, of his pals of
hoof, horn and claw. but i am glad to say that, in this country, laws in many
a community admit that an animal has rights. oh, how an animal that is hurt
looks up at you, john! an animal's actions can inform you if it is in pain. it
don't hop and jump around as usual. no. you find a sad, crouching, cringing,
small bunch of fur or hair, whining, and plainly asking you to aid it. it
isn't hard to find out what is wrong, john; any man or woman who would pass by
such a sight, just isn't worth knowing. i just can't withstand it! why, i
think that not only animals, but plants can know pain. i carry a drink to many
a poor, thirsty growing thing; or, if it is torn up i put it kindly back, and
fix its soil up as comfortably as i can. anything that is living, john, is
worthy of man's aid."

poor old bill simpkins! nothing in this world was worth
anything; nobody was right; all wrong, all wrong! simpkins had no kin; and,
not marrying, was "just plodding along," living in a small room, with no fun,
no constant company, no social goal to which to look forward; and had, thus,
grown into what boys call "a big, old grouch." but it wasn't all simpkins'
fault. a human mind was built for contact with similar minds. it should,--in
fact,--it must think about what is going on around it; for, if it is shut up
in a thick, dark, bony box of a skull, it will always stay in that condition
known as status quo; and grow up, antagonistic to all surroundings. but
simpkins didn't want to growl and grunt. it was practically as annoying to
him as to folks around him but, as soon as that shut-up, solitary mind found
anybody wanting it to do anything in confirmation of public opinion, - no!
that mind would contract, as a snail in its spiral armor--and balk.

lady gadsby and his honor, in talking about this, had thought of improving
such a condition; but simpkins was not a man to whom you could broach such a
thought. it would only bring forth an outburst of sarcasm about "trying it on
your own brain, first." so branton hills' council always had so to word a
"motion" as to, in a way, blind simpkins as to its import. many such a motion
had a hard fight showing him its valuation as a municipal law; such as our big
hall of natural history, our zoo, and so on.

now nothing can so light up such a mind as a good laugh. start a man laughing,
good, long and loud, and his mind's grimy windows will slowly inch upward;
snappy, invigorating air will rush in, and - lo! that old snarling, ugly
grouch will vanish as hoar-frost in a warm spring thaw!

and so it got around, on a bright spring day, to old bill sitting on gadsby's
front porch; outwardly calm, and smoking a good cigar (which didn't blow up!),
but, inwardly just full of snarls and growls about branton hills' youth.

"silly half-grown young animals, found out that two plus two is four, and
thinking that all things will fit, just that way!"

now that small girl, "of about six," who had had nancy's baby out in city
park, was passing gadsby's mansion, and saw old bill. a kid of six has, as you
probably know, no formally laid-out plan for its daily activity; anything
bobbing up will attract. so, with this childish instability of thought, this
tiny miss ran up onto gadsby's porch and stood in front of old bill, looking
up at him, but saying not a word.

"huh !" bill just had to snort. "looking at anything?"

"no, sir.

"what!! oh, that is, you think Â‘not much,' probably. what do you want, anyway.

"i want to play."

"all right; run along and play."

"no; i want to play with you."

"pooh!! that's silly. i'm an old man. an old man can't play.

"can, too. my grandpa can.

"but i'm not your grandpa, thank my lucky stars. run along now; i'm thinking."

"so am i."

"you? huh! a kid can't think."

"ooo-o! i can!"

"about what?"

"about playing with you."

now simpkins saw that this was a condition which wouldn't pass with scowling
or growling, but didn't know what to do about it. play with a kid? what?
councilman simpkins pl--

but into that shut-up mind, through a partially, \- only partially,--rising
window, was wafting a back thought of may day in city park; and that happy,
singing, marching ring of tots around that ribbon-wound mast. councilman
simpkins was in that ring.

so this thought got to tramping round and round many a musty corridor in his
mind; throwing up a window, "busting in" a door, and shoving a lot of dust and
rubbish down a back stairway. round and round it ran, until, (!!) old bill,
slowly and surprisingly softly, said:-

"what do you want to play?"

oh! oh! what a victory for that tot!! what a victory for youth!! and what a
fall for grouchy, snarling maturity!! i think that simpkins, right at that
instant, saw that bright sunlight coming in through that rising window;
rising by baby hands; and from that "bust in" door. i think that old bill cast
off, in that instant, that hard, gloomy coating of dissatisfaction, which was
gripping his shut-up mind. and i think,--in fact, i know,-- that old bill
simpkins was now,--that is, was-- was--was, oh, just plain happy!

"what do you want to play?"

"this is a lady, a-going to town."

"play what?"

my!! don't you know how to play that? all right; i'll show you. now just stick
out your foot. that's it. now i'll sit on it, so. now you bump it up and down.
ha, ha! ho, ho! that's it! this is a lady, a-going to town, a-going to town,
a-going to town! and as that tiny lady sang that baby song gaily and happily,
old bill was actually laughing; and laughing uproariously, too!

as this sight was occurring, his honor and lady gadsby, looking out from a
parlor window, gadsby said, happily:

"a lady physician is working on old bill," causing lady gadsby to add:

"and a mighty good doctor, too."

it was night again.

that small salvation army group was parading and singing, a young girl would
soon start a long oration against drink. now boys, gawking as boys always do,
saw a shadowy form of a man slinking along from doorway to doorway, plainly
watching this marching group, but also, plainly trying to stay out of sight. a
halt, a song or two, and mary antor was soon walking towards old lady
flanagan's cabin. but!! in passing big, dark city park, a man, rushing wildly
up, wrapping that frail form in a cast-iron grip, planting kiss upon kiss upon
mary's lips, finally unwound that grip and stood stiffly in military saluting
position. mary, naturally in a bad fright, took a short, anxious, inquiring
look, and instantly, all that part of city park actually rang with a wild
girlish cry:

"norman!!!"

"hulloa, kiddo! just got in, half an hour ago, on a small troop train; and, by
luck, saw you marching in that group. wow!! but you do look grand!"

"and you look grand, too, norman; but-- but--but--not drunk?"

"no, sis! not for many a day now. saw too much of it in camp. big, grand,
corking good chaps down and out from it. days and days in jail, military jail,
you know, and finally finding a Â‘bad conduct' stamp on company books. no, sir;
i'm off it, for good!"

* * *

on old lady flanagan's porch mary sat way past midnight with, no, not with
norman, only, but with two khaki-clad boys; and it was miraculous that that
small, loving childish bosom could hold so much joy! old lady flanagan in
nightgown and cap, looking down a front stairway, (and old man flanagan, also
in nightgown and cap, and also looking down), said:

"arrah!! go wan oop stairs, you snoopin' varmit!"

"who's a snoopin' varmint? not you, of --"

"go wan oop, i say! by golly! that darlin' girl has found a mountain of gold
wid norman an' --"

"who's that wid norman? that guy's around, nights, now, as -"

"say, you!! do you go oop? or do i swat you?"

bill gadsby, going abroad, naturally wasn't on that ballot
for councilman antor's chair; but this history shows that that mouthy
antagonist who had had so much to say about "pink satin ribbons" and "vanilla
sprays, didn't win. no. a first class man got that position; old tom young,
sarah's dad, as good an old soul as any in all branton hills. and was sarah
happy ! oh, my! and was sarah proud! two "oh mys!" tiny nancy, loyal as always
to bill, said:

"bill was as good as in, for nobody, knowing my bill would ballot against him;
and bill would hold that honor now, but for Â‘old glory's' calling."

that's right, nancy darling, you stick up for bill; for, though bill didn't
know it until many months, a citation "for outstanding and valorous conduct in
action" was soon to go through our national printing plant! for a "city fop"
or an "outdoor part of a tailor shop" is not always a boob, you know.

gadsby's mansion was again brightly aglow that night, that "world war flag"
not hanging in his window now. and so, on labor day night, lady gadsby and his
honor, sitting in his parlor, thought that a light footfall was sounding out
on his porch. as gadsby got up to find out about it, julius, coming in with a
young girl, stood looking, grinningly, at lady gadsby; who, jumping up, said,
happily:

"why! mary antor!

"no, ma," said julius. "this is not mary antor."

"not mary antor? why, julius, i think i know m--"

"not mary antor, ma, but mary gadsby!"

"oh! oh! my darling girl!!" and half crying and half laughing, mary was
snuggling in lady gadsby's arms; and his honor, coining in, saying:

"by golly! that young cuss, cupid, is mighty busy around this town! why, i can
hardly walk two blocks along broadway, without a young girl, who has Â‘grown
up in a night,' stopping, and saying: Â‘mayor gadsby, this is my husband.' but
i'll say that cupid's marksmanship has always brought about happy matings.
and, mary, you darling kid, your sad, dark shadows will gradually pass; and
lady gadsby and i will try to bring you loads and loads of comfort. but, say,
you, julius! i didn't know that you and mary--"

"ho, ho" said mary, laughing. "didn't you know that julius and norman and i
sat out nights on old lady flanagan's porch?"

"why, no; how should i? i don't go snooping around anybody's porch."

"ha, ha, dad," said julius; "no snooping would find that out. mary and i had
had this plan so long ago that i didn't know a world war was coming!"

as a small boy, your historian was told that "a king was in
his counting room, a-counting out his cash," or similar words, which told,
practically, of his taking account of stock. so, also, gadsby was on his
thinking-porch, a-thinking of his past. (a mighty good thing to do, too; if
anybody should ask you!)

"if," said his honor, you can't find any fun during childhood, you naturally
won't look for it as you grow up to maturity. you will grow Â‘hard,' and look
upon fun as foolish. also, if you don't furnish fun for a child, don't look
for it to grow up bright, happy and loving. so, always put in a child's path
an opportunity to watch, talk about, and know, as many good things as you
can."

lady gadsby, from a parlor window, said:

"practicing for a stumping tour, or a political pow-wow?"

"ha, ha! no. just thinking out loud."

so, as thinking cannot hurt anybody, his honor was soon going on:

"affairs which look small or absurd to a full-grown man may loom up as big as
a mountain to a child; and you shouldn't allow a fact that you saw a thing
Â‘so much that i am sick of it,' to turn you away from an inquiring child. you
wasn't sick of it, on that far-past day on which you first saw it. i always
look back, happily and proudly, to taking a small girl to our city florist's
big glass building; to a group at our night court; a group finding out about
dispatching our mail; and our circus! boy! that was fun! our awarding
diplomas at city hall; tiny marian at our airport's inauguration; our manual
training school graduation. all that did a big lot toward showing youth that
this big world is Â‘not half bad,' if adults will but watch, aid, and coach.
and i will not stand anybody's snapping at a child! particularly a tiny tot.
if you think that you must snap, snap at a child so big as to snap back. i
don't sanction Â‘talking back' to adults, but, ha, ha! i did find a grand,
big wallop in marian's april fool cigar! woo! did old bill jump!! but that
did no harm, and a sad young mind found a way to match things up with an
antagonist. now, just stand a child up against your body. how tall is it?
possibly only up to your hip. still, a man ,--or an animal thinking that it
is a man--will slap, whip, or viciously yank an arm of so frail, so soft a
tiny body! that is what i call a coward!! by golly! almost a criminal!
if a tot is what you call naughty, (and no child voluntarily is,) why not
lift that young body up onto your lap, and talk--don't shout--about what it
just did? shouting gains nothing with a tot. man can shout at man, at dogs,
and at farm animals; but a man who shouts at a child is, at that instant,
sinking in his own muck of bullyism; and bullyism is a sin, if anything in
this world is. ah youth! you glorious dawn of mankind! you bright, happy,
glowing morning sun; not at full brilliancy of noon, i know, but unavoidably
on your way! youth! how i do thrill at taking your warm, soft hand; walking
with you; talking with you; but, most important of all, laughing with you!
that is man's pathway to glory. a man who drops blossoms in passing, will
carry joy to folks along his way; a man who drops crumbs will also do a kindly
act; but a man who drops kind words to a sobbing child will find his joy
continuing for many a day; for blossoms will dry up; crumbs may blow away; but
a kind word to a child may start a blossom growing in that young mind, which
will so far surpass what an unkindly man might drop, as an orchid will surpass
a wisp of grass. just stop a bit and look back at your footprints along your
past pathway. did you put many humps in that soil which a small child might
trip on? did you angrily slam a door, which might so jolt a high-strung tot as
to bring on nights and nights of insomnia? did you so constantly snarl at it
that it don't want you around? in fact, did you put anything in that back-
path of yours which could bring sorrow to a child? or start its distrust of
you, as its rightful guardian? if so, go back right now, man, and fix up
such spots by kindly acts from now on. or, jump into a pond, and don't crawl
out again!! for nobody wants you around!"

lady gadsby, as this oration was wafting off amongst lilac shrubs, and across
soft, warm lawns, had sat, also thinking; finally coming out onto that ivy-
bound porch, and sitting down by his honor, saying:

"that was just grand, john, but i was thinking along a path varying a bit from
that. you know that man's brain is actually all of him. all parts of his
body, as you follow down from his brain, act simply as aids to it. his
nostrils bring him air; his mouth is for masticating his food; his hands and
limbs furnish ability for manipulation and locomotion; and his lungs, stomach
and all inward organs function only for that brain. if you look at a crowd
you say that you saw lots of folks: but if you look at a man bathing in a
pond; and if that man sank until only that part from his brow upward was in
sight, you might say that you saw nobody; only a man s scalp. but you actually
saw a man, for a man is only as big as that part still in sight. now a child's
skull, naturally, is not so big as a man's; so its brain has no room for all
that vast mass of thoughts which adult brains contain. it is, so to say, in a
small room. but, as days and months go by, that room will push its walls
outward, and that young brain gradually fill up all that additional room. so,
looking for calm, cool thinking in a child is as silly as looking for big,
juicy plums amongst frail spring blossoms. why, oh, why don't folks think of
that? you know what foolish sounding things julius was always asking, as a
child. Â‘how can just rubbing a match light it?' Â‘why is it dark at night?'
Â‘why can't a baby talk?' but, you and i, john, didn't laugh at him. no, not
for an instant. and now look at our julius and our kathlyn; both famous,
just through all that asking; and our aid. john, god could put man into this
world, full-grown. but god don't do so; for god knows that, without a tiny
hand to hold, a tiny foot to pat, tiny lips to kiss, and a tiny, warm,
wriggling body to hug, man would know nothing but work."

gadsby sat smoking for a bit, finally saying:-

"darling, that pair of robins up in that big oak with four young, and you and
i in this big building, also with four, know all about what you just said;
and, and, --hmmm!! it's almost midnight." and his honor s mansion was soon
dark; bathing in soft moonlight.

practically all branton hills was talking about councilman
simpkins; for councilman simpkins just didn't look natural; and councilman
simpkins didn't act natural. in fact, councilman simpkins was crawling out of
his old cocoon; and, though an ugly, snarling dowdy worm had lain for so
long, shut up in that tight mass of wrappings around his brain, now a gay,
smiling moth was coming out; for councilman simpkins was "dolling up!"

if bill gadsby was known as a "tailorshop's outdoor part," old bill was not a
part. no, old bill was that tailor shop--outdoor, indoor, or without a door.
in fact, councilman simpkins now had "it," such as our films talk about so
much today.

but simpkins' outfit was not flashy or "loud." suits of good cloth, hats of
stylish form. always a bright carnation "just south of his chin," boots always
glossy, and a smart, springy walk, had all broadway gasping as this apollo-
vision swung jauntily along. nancy, happy, giggling nancy, was "all of a grin"
about this magic trans formation; and, with that old, inborn instinct of
womanhood, told lucy:

"you just watch, and mark my word. a woman is in this pudding! old bill just
couldn't boom out in such a way without having a goal in sight; and i'll put
up a dollar on it."

and lucy, also a woman, said smilingly:

"and i'll put up a dollar and a half!"

but his honor and lady gadsby, at such talk would look skyward, cough, and
say:-

"possibly a woman; and a mighty young woman, at that."

now, if anything will "warm up" up" a public, it is gossip; particularly if it
is about mystifying actions of a public man; and this had soon grown to a
point at which a particularly curious man or woman thought of going to old
bill and boldly asking: "who is it?" but, as i said, what councilman simpkins
would say to such "butting in" was known to all branton hills. no. councilman
simpkins could doll up and trot around all that that portly solon might wish;
but, so to say, a sign was always hanging from his coat front, saying:

"hands off! !!"

* * * *

nina adams and virginia sat on gadsby's porch with nancy and kathlyn; and old
bill was up as a topic. virginia, constantly smiling and inwardly chuckling,
hadn't much to say about our frisky councilman; and nancy and kathlyn couldn't
fathom why. but nina, not so backward, said:

"pffft! if a man wants to throw old clothing away and buy stylish outfits,
what affair is it, but his own? it isn't right so to pick out a man, and turn
him into a laughing stock of a city. old bill isn't a bad sort; possibly born
grouchy; but if a grouchy man or woman, (and i know a bunch of that class in
this town!) can pull out of it, and laugh, and find a bit of joy in living,
i think it is an occasion for congratulations, not booing."

"oh," said kathlyn, "i don't think anybody is booing councilman simpkins. but
you know that any showing of such an innovation is apt to start gossip. just
why, i don't know. it, though, is a trait of mankind only. animals don't
Â‘bloom' out so abruptly. you can hunt through biology, zoology or any similar
study, and find but slow, -awfully slow,--adaptations toward any form of
variation. hurrying was not known until man got around."

"my!" said nancy, gasping, and not giggling now, "i wish that i could know
all that you know, kathy. as our slang puts it, Â‘i don't know nothin','"

"but, you could," said kathlyn, "if you would only study. all through our
young days, you know, with you and bill out at a card or dancing party, you in
flimsy frills, and bill swishing around in sartorial glory, i was upstairs,
studying. and so was julius."

"that's right," said nina. "i wish virginia would study."

"oh, i am!" said virginia, all aglow. "you? studying what?"

"aviation! harold is going to show--"

"now, virginia, harold is not!" and nina adams' foot was down! "it's not
so bad for a man to fly, but a girl--

"but, mama, lots of girls fly, nowadays."

"i know that, and i also know a girl who won't! and, just as lucy has
always known that old tom young's Â‘no' was a no, just so had nina adams
brought up virginia.

"but," said kathlyn, "this sky-shooting talk isn't finding out anything about
councilman simpkins;" and virginia said:

"possibly old bill wants to Â‘fly high.' i think i'll ask harold about taking
him up for a jaunt."

this, bringing a happy laugh all around, nina said:-

"now don't jolly poor bill too much. i don't know what, or who, got him to
Â‘going social.'" and nancy, giggling, said:

"i put up a dollar, with lucy's dollar-fifty that it's a woman."

"oh, i don't know, now," said nina. "a man isn't always trotting around on a
woman's apron strings," and, as it was growing dark, nina and virginia got up
to go.

passing down gadsby's front walk, a soft night wind brought back to that
porch:

"now, virginia, quit this! you will stay on solid ground!"

"aw, ma! harold says--"

but a big bus, roaring by, cut it short.

* * * *

just a month from this, his honor, sitting on his porch with his "morning
post" ran across a short bit, just two rows of print, which had him calling
"hi!" which lady gadsby took as a signal for a quick trip to that porch.

"all right, your honor! on duty! what's up?"

gadsby, folding his "post" into a narrow column, and handing it to that
waiting lady, said nothing. as that good woman saw that paragraph. gadsby saw
first a gasp, following that, a grin, and finally:

"why! of all things! so that's nina--"

that row of print said, simply:

"by pastor brown, on saturday night, in pastor's study, nina adams and
councilman simpkins."

"why!" said lady gadsby, laughing, "nina sat on this porch only last month,
talking about old bill, but saying nothing about this! i'm going right around
to hug that darling woman; for that is what i call tact."

so, as nina and our lady sat talking, nina said:

"you know that bill and i, growing up from kids in school, always got along
grandly; no childhood spats; but, still it was no Â‘crush' such as youth falls
into. as bill got out of high school, i still had two rooms to go through. you
also know that i wasn't a Â‘miss' for long from graduation day. but irving
adams was lost in that awful Â‘titanic' calamity, and i brought up my baby in
my widowhood. bill was always sympathizing and patronizing, though all branton
hills thought him a cast-iron grouch. but a public man is not always stiff and
hard in his off hours; and bill and i, slowly but gradually finding many a
happy hour could--

"all right, you grand, luscious thing!!" and lady gadsby and nina sat laughing
on a couch, as in old, old school days. "and," said nina, happily; "poor
bill's upstairs, now, putting his things around to suit him. living for so
long in a small lodging all his things staid in a trunk. a lodging-room always
has various folks around, you know, and a man don't lay his things out as in
his own room. so--"

"nina," said lady gadsby; "do you know what brought him out of his old shut-in
way of looking at things?"

"from just a word or two bill drops, occasionally, i think that a child is--"

and lady gadsby, said; "you know our good book's saying about: Â‘and a tiny
child shall --,"

six months from that day upon which old mars, god of war
had angrily thrown down his cannons, tanks, gas-bombs and so on, fuming at
man's inability to "stand up to it, gadsby's mansion was dark again. not
totally dark; just his parlor lamp, and a light or two in halls and on
stairways. and so this history found nancy and kathlyn out on that moon-lit
porch; nancy sobbing, fighting it off, and sobbing again. tall, studious,
loving kathlyn, sitting fondly by nancy's tiny form, said;--

"now, sis; i wouldn't cry so much, for i don't think that conditions, just
now, call for it."

"b-b-b-but i'd stop if i could, wouldn't i?" and poor nancy was sobbing again.
"now, wait!" and kathlyn, uncommonly cross, vigorously shook nancy's arm.
"you can't gain a thing this way. mama is probably all right. oh, is that
you, daddy?"

his honor sat down by his two girls. gadsby was not looking good. black rings
around his always laughing orbs; a hard cast to that jovial mouth; a gray hair
or two, cropping up amongst his wavy brown. but gadsby was not old. oh, no;
far from it. still, that stoop in walking; that odd, limp slump in sitting;
that toning down in joviality, had, for six months past, had all branton hills
sympathizing with its popular mayor.

* * * *

days; days; days! and, oh! that tough part, \---nights, nights, nights!
nights of two young chaps, in full clothing, only just napping on a parlor
conch. nights of two girls nodding in chairs in a dimly,--oh, so dimly a lit
room.

it got around almost to christmas, only a fortnight to that happy clay; but,--
happy in gadsby's mansion? finally frank took a hand: "now, kid, do try to
stop this crying! you know i'm not scolding you, darling, but, you just can't
go on, this way; and that's that!"

"i'm trying** **so hard, hubby!"

now nancy was of that good, sturdy old colonial stock of his honor and lady
gadsby; and so, as christmas was approaching, and many a bunch of holly hung
in broadway's big windows, and as many a salvation army santa claus stood at
its curbs, nancy's constitution won out; but a badly worn young lady was in
and out of gadsby's mansion daily; bringing baby lillian to kiss grandma, and
riding back with frank at about six o'clock.

* * * *

old doctor wilkins, coming in on a cool. sharp night, found his honor, nancy,
kathyn, bill, julius, lucy, mary, frank and john all in that big parlor.

"now, you bunch, it's up to you. lady gadsby will pull through all right,"
(nancy rushing wildly to kiss him!) "it hangs now upon good nursing; and i
know you will furnish that. and i will say without a wisp of a doubt, that a
calm, happy room; not too many around; and--and--hmmm!! julius, can't you hunt
around in our woods that you and kathlyn know so thoroughly, and find a tall,
straight young fir; cut it down, rig it up with lights and a lot of shiny
stuff; stand it up in your ma's room, and--"

* * * *

> > Â‘tis a night, almost christmas,  
and all through that room  
a warm joy is stirring;  
no sign of a gloom.  
and "ma," sitting up,  
in gay gown, and cap,  
no, no! will not start  
on a long wintry nap!  
for, out on that lawn  
a group of girls stand;  
a group singing carols  
with part of our band.  
and that moon, in full vigor,  
was lustrous; and lo!  
our lady is singing!  
aha, now i know  
that nancy and kathlyn  
and julius and bill  
and also his honor,  
will sing with a will!  
and old doctor wilkins  
amidst it all stands;  
smiting and nodding,  
and rubbing his hands;  
and, sliding out, slyly;  
calls back at that sight:  
"happy christmas to all;  
and to all a good night!"

along about midnight a happy group sat around gadsby's parlor lamp, as dr.
wilkins was saying:-

"stopping a war; that is, stopping actual military combat, is not stopping a
war in all its factors. during continuous hard strain a human mind can hold
up; and it is truly amazing how much it can stand. day by day, with that war-
strain of worry pulling it down, it staunchly holds aloof, as a mighty oak in
facing a storm. but it has a limit!! with too much and too long strain, it
will snap; just as that mighty oak will fall, in a long fight. lady gadsby
will avoid such a snap though it is by a narrow margin."

as this group sat in that holly-hung parlor, with that big cloth sign in big
gold capitals; happy christmas, across its back wall; with horns tooting
outdoors; with many a window around town aglow with tiny, dancing tallow-dip
lights; with baby lillian "all snuggling--so warm in a cot; as vision of sugar
plums"-- (and why shouldn't a baby think of sugar plums on that night,
almost christmas?); as, i say, this happy group sat around gadsby's lamp,
mars, that grim old war tyrant, was far, far away. upstairs, calmly snoozing
on a big downy pillow, lady gadsby was now rapidly coming back again to that
buxom, happy-go-lucky first lady of branton hills.

christmas, gay and happy in gadsby's mansion, was soon far,
far back. a robin or two was hopping about on his honor's lawn, looking for a
squirming lunch; lady was taking short walks with nancy; kathlyn having to go
back to work in our big hospital. lilac, syringa, narcissus, tulips, hyacinths
burst out in a riot of bloom; and a bright warm sun brought joy to all and so
this history found his honor on his porch with his "post" as a young lad,
coming up, said ;-- "good morning, sir. i'm soliciting funds for a big stadium
for branton hills, which will furnish an opportunity for football, polo, --"

"whoa !" said gadsby, putting down his "post" and looking critically at his
young visitor. "you look a bit familiar, boy. oho! if is isn't kid banks; oh,
pardon! \-- allan banks; son of councilman banks! you young folks grow up so
fast i don't know half of you. now what about this soliciting. who is back of
you?"

"branton hills' organization of youth; part two, sir."

"branton hills org-- ha, ha! upon my word! who is starting this group?"

mary, coming out from his honor's parlor, said:

"oh, i forgot to notify you of this. norman has got about fifty kids from
grammar school boys and girls, anxious to follow in your organizations's
foot-prints."

was gadsby happy? did gadsby thrill? did that long-past, happy day float in
glowing colors through his mind? it did. and now that old, hard-working bunch
of kids, grown up, now, and with kids of its own; that loyal bunch of young
sprouts was taking root; was born again!

oh, how youth crawls tip on you! flow a tiny girl "almost instantly" shoots
up into a tall, charming young woman! how a top-spinning, ball-tossing,
racing, shouting boy looms up into a manly young chap in military school
uniform! gadsby was happy; for, wasn't this a tonic for his spinal column?
so his honor said;--

"allan, i think branton hills will officially aid this stadium plan. i'll put
it up to council." but, allan banks, not kid banks now, was just so old as
to know a thing or two about council bills; and, out as a solicitor, naturally
sought a good showing on donations won, so said;--

"a council donation will fit in grand, sir; but how about grouchy old bill
simpk --"

"trot along, allan."

"but how about this stadium? i'm doubting old b--""

"trot along, allan."

* * * *

what mary had said was a fact. norman antor had not only fought a military
war; norman antor had also fought an inward war. a war, which fought him
with gallon jugs, small phials, spoons, mixing apparatus, and -- a stumbling,
mumbling stupor! norman had fought with about two million lads in that
military war; but now, with no aid but a strain of good blood, starting way
back of his carousing dad (but, as such traits may, skipping a notch or two,
and implanting in this young lad just a grain of its old nobility of mind),
was fighting again; and, just as any solitary young chap amongst that two
million loyally did his part, just so was this tiny grain now doing its
part; fighting valiantly in his brain. it was giving him torturing thoughts
in army night-camps, of a darling, loving young girl, a part of his own
family, growing up "in a pool of liquor ;" thoughts in night-camps of branton
hills' patrol-wagon trips to jail; and darn that thought of virginia!
virginia drunk by his own hand! ugh!! why not chop that stinking hand off?
and, on coming back to branton hills, watching that darling mary in salvation
army uniform, tramping, talking, praying for just such low-down "liquor
hounds" as--.

oh! it was an awful fight! a long, brain-racking onslaught against a villain
shut in by walls of iron! but though norman antor's night-- camp fights with
norman antor had "put a big kick" in his wish to "lay off that stuff," just a
final blow, just an awful brain-crashing blast was still missing, so that
that big right hand might point skyward, to clinch that vow. and that blast
was waiting for norman! to anybody standing around, it wasn't much of a blast;
but it was! it was a mighty concussion of t.n.t., coming as mary, young,
loving, praying mary, said, as his arms unwound from around that frail form;--

"why, norman! not drunk?"

god!! what flashing, shooting, sizzling sparks shot through his brain!! up,
out, in; all kinds of ways!! what crashing bombs!!

and, that first calm night on old lady flanagan's porch; that moonlit night of
bliss, with soft, cuddling, snuggling, laughing, crying darling mary!

"i say," norman was shouting, inwardly; "that night of bliss was a night of
bliss and don't anybody try to say that it wasn't!"

for it was a night on which a young man's soul was back; hack in its own
mind, now full of god's incomparably grand purity!

* * * *

lady gadsby was visiting nina, sitting in that big front parlor; virginia
sitting calmly rocking; (and, hmmm! that was about all virginia ought to do,
just now!) a young high school girl, coming in, said: "good morning! i'm
soliciting for funds for a stadium for --"

"marian!" sang out virginia, "what's all this? you soliciting?"

"why not?" said marian, brightly. "norman antor's organization of youth; part
two, is soli --"

"norman antor's what? and virginia was all agog in an instant, as marian
hopkins told all about it; and, with childish flippancy, forgot all about
soliciting, saying:

"i was told that harold is giving flying instructions. don't you want to fly?
my! i do!"

"i did," said virginia, softly ; "but, --not now; and marian was a bit too
young to know why lady gadsby was smiling at nina!

as nancy found out about this, on lady gadsby's coming back to lunch, that
"old branton hills matron," as gadsby found a lot of fun calling "his baby
girl," now-a-days, said, giggling:

"no! virginia! you'll stay on solid ground!"

lady gadsby and his honor sat in branton hills' first
church, on a hot july sunday. out-doors, twitting birds, lacy clouds, and gay
blossoms, told of happy hours in this long, bright month. pastor brown,
announcing a hymn, said:

"this is a charming hymn. our choir always sings it without company; but
today, i want all you good folks to join in. just pour forth your joy and
sing it, good and strongly."

that hymn had six stanzas; and gadsby, noting an actually grand bass singing
just back of him, thought of turning around, from curiosity; and as that fifth
stanza was starting, said to lady gadsby:

"do you know who that is, singing that grand bass part?"

lady gadsby didn't; but lady gadsby was a woman; and, from noah's ark to
branton hills' first church, woman, as a branch of mankind, was curious. so a
slow casual turning brought a dig in his honor's ribs: "it's norman antor !"

pastor brown, standing at that big church door as** **folks, filing out would
stop for a word or two, said to gadsby:-

"young antor is invariably in church, now-a-days. i may add to my choir, and
am thinking of putting him in it. i'm so glad to find out about that boy
winning his fight. i always thought norman would turn out all right."

pastor brown was right; and two branton hills girls, a salvation army lady,
and a tiny tot of six had won crowns of glory, from throwing rays of light
into two badly stagnant minds.

thirty-six months. that's not so long a run in daily
affairs, and this branton hills history finds thanksgiving day dawning. in
branton hill's locality it is not, customarily, what you would call a cold
day. many a thanksgiving has had warm, balmy air, and without snow; though,
also, without all that vast army of tiny chirping, singing, buzzing things on
lawn or branch. but contrast has its own valuation; for, through it, common
sights, vanishing annually, show up with a happy joy, upon coming back. ah!
that first faint coloring of grass, in spring! that baby bud, on shrub or
plant, shyly asking our loving south wind if it's all right to pop out, now.
that sprouting of big brown limbs on oak and birch; that first "blush of
spring" in orchards; that first furry, fuzzy, cuddly spray of pussy willows!
spring and fall; two big points in your trip along your pathway. fall with its
rubbish from months of labor corn-stalks, brown, dry grass, old twigs lying
around, wilting plants; bright colorings blazing in distant woodlands; chill
winds crawling in through windows, at night. and spring! pick-up, paint-up,
wash-up spring!! so, as i said, branton hills got around to thanksgiving day;
that day on which as many of a family as possibly can should sit around a
common board; coming from afar, or from only a door or two away.

gadsby's dining-room was not big; it had always sat but six in his family.
but, on this thanksgiving day, \--hmmm! "wait, now -- uh-huh, that's it.
just run that pair of sliding doors back, put that parlor lamp upstairs; and
that piano? why not roll it out into my front hall? i know it will look odd,
but you can't go through a thanksgiving soup to nuts' standing up. got to
jam in chairs, any old way!"

but who is all this mob that will turn his honor's dining-room into a thirty-
foot hail? i'll look around, as our happy, laughing, singing, clapping group
sits down to gadsby's thanksgiving party.

i find two "posts of honor;" (my gracious! so far apart!) ; his honor,
with carving tools filling dish, dish, and dish.

"atta boy! atta girl! pass up your chow-dish! this bird has but two drum-
sticks, but six of his cousins wait, out in our cook-shop! lots of grub!
what's that, julius? a bit of dark? want any gravy?"

at post two sits "ma;" again in that good old buxom condition, so familiar to
all branton hills; --

"right this way, folks, for potato, squash, onions, carrots and turnip!!"

what a happy bunch! following around from gadsby, sit bill, lucy and
addison. but whoa! who's this addison? oh, pardon; i forgot all about it.
lucy's baby; and his first thanksgiving. hi, you! tut-tut! mustn't grab
raisins! naughty, naughty! on lucy's right sit mary, julius and norman;
following along, i find nancy, frank and baby lillian, kathlyn, john, lady
standish, priscilla and hubby arthur rankin; nina adams, -- oh! a thousand
pardons!! -- nina simpkins! and old bill. say! you wouldn't know bill!
bright, happy, laughing, singing, and tapping a cup with his spoon; spick-span
suit, and that now famous "broadway carnation." hulloa, bill; you old sport!!
glad to find you looking so happy! what? two whacks at that bird? why bill!!
on bill's right sits pastor brown, old doctor wilkins, harold, virginia, and
patricia. oh, pardon again! patricia, virgina's baby; just six months old,
today, and valiantly trying to swallow a half-pound candy cow! following
around i find old tom young, sarah, and paul. no, i don't find a high-chair by
sarah; but sarah sits just rocking, rocking, rocking, now-a-days. following
on, again, is old tom donaldson, clancy dowd, and--old lady flanagan, with
"this dom thing i calls hoosband!" and lastly, marian and old pat ryan from
our railway station's trunk room.

so it was just laugh, talk, "stuff," and--

*** * * ***

oh, hum! folks can't stay all night, you know; so, finally, groups and pairs,
drifting out, all had happy words for his honor and lady gadsby; and his
honor, a word or two; for you know gadsby can** **talk? so it was:

"good night, nina; good luck, old bill! oh! say, bill; will that cigar blow
up? good night, virginia; and ta-ta patricia; and virginia, you mind your ma
and stay down on solid ground! aha, clancy! you old motor-pump fan! no; that's
wrong; animal-drawn pump! good night, pastor brown; so glad you put norman
in your choir. and now old tom and sarah! tom, you look as young as on that
day on which you brought sarah, just a tiny, squalling, fist-waving bunch, to
this porch to ask about adoption! and i know sarah has always had a kind,
loving dad. paul, you young sprout! as you turn into a daddy, soon now,
you'll find that, on marrying, a man and woman start actually living. it's
miraculous, paul, that's just what it is."

and so it was; pairs and groups shaking hands and laughing, until finally a
big buxom woman sang out:-

"whoops!! it was a wow of a grub-lay-out! it was thot! but this dom
thing i calls hoosband. say! you grub-stuffin' varmint! phwat's that in your
hat? a droom-stick, is it? do you want his honor to think i don't cook nuthin'
for you? goodnight, all ! i'm thot full i'm almost a-bustin'!"

as lady standish shook hands, that worthy woman said:

"john, what you did for branton hills should go into our national library at
washington, in plain sight."

"sally, youth's part was paramount in all that work. all i did was to boss
;" and old doc wilkins, coming out, nibbling a bunch of raisins, said:-

"uh-huh; but a boss must know his job!"

"that's all right," said gadsby; "** **but it was young hands and young minds
that did my work! don't disqualify youth for it will fool you, if you do!

* * *

a glorious full moon sails across a sky without a** **cloud. a crisp night air
has folks turning up coat collars and kids hopping up and down for warmth. and
that giant star, sirius, winking slyly, knows that soon, now, that light up in
his honor's room window will go out. fttt! it is out! so, as sirius and luna
hold an all-night vigil, i'll say a soft "good-night" to all our happy bunch,
and to john gadsby -- youth's champion.** **
